The purpose of this study was to explore the role of visual and proprioceptive feedback in upper limb posture control in fibromyalgia (FM) and to assess the coherence between acceleration measurements of upper limb micro movements and surface electromyography (sEMG) of shoulder muscle activity (upper trapezius and deltoid). Twenty-five female FM patients and 25 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs) performed three precision motor tasks: (1) maintain a steady shoulder abduction angle of 45° while receiving visual feedback about upper arm position and supporting external loads (0.5, 1, or 2kg), (2) maintain the same shoulder abduction angle without visual feedback (eyes closed) and no external loading, and (3) a joint position sense test (i.e., assessment of proprioceptive accuracy). Patients had more extensive increase in movement variance than HCs when visual feedback was removed (P<0.03). Proprioceptive accuracy was related to movement variance in HCs (R⩾0.59, P⩽0.002), but not in patients (R⩽0.25, P⩾0.24). There was no difference between patients and HCs in coherence between sEMG and acceleration data. These results may indicate that FM patients are more dependent on visual feedback and less reliant on proprioceptive information for upper limb posture control compared to HCs.PURPOSE: While previous research suggests that lubricant use may be common among lesbian- and bisexually-identified women, it remains unclear from this research whether lubricant was being used with a male or female partner. The present study explores the behavioral, emotional, situational, and relational aspects of lesbian- and bisexually-identified women's lubricant use during their most recent female-partnered sexual event. METHODS: Nationally representative data was collected as part of the 2012 National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior (NSSHB). The 2012 NSSHB had an oversample of lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) individuals. Participants were included in the present study if they identified as a lesbian or bisexual women and indicated that their most recent sexual partner was a female. Participants were asked a variety of questions about the context and experience of lubricant use during this event. RESULTS: Nearly a quarter (21.9%, n=32) of the participants reported that they used a lubricant during their most recent female-partnered sexual event. The likelihood of lubricant use significantly differed based upon age, race/ethnicity and sexual identity. The most commonly reported reason for lubricant use was to "make sex more comfortable," with half reporting use for clitoral stimulation (50.6%, n=16). Overall, participants indicated that lubricant use enhanced their sexual experience. CONCLUSION: Lubricant use may improve comfort and increase pleasure during certain sexual acts between women. The use of lubrication should be considered as a means of reducing pain and enhancing sexual pleasure during sexual behavior between women.PURPOSE: To assess the health and well-being of sexual minority women (SMW) with disabilities. METHODS: A survey assessing physical and mental health and quality of life was administered to a convenience sample of 52 women with disabilities and 74 without disabilities. All had been recruited for an SMW's health intervention targeting women over 40 with potential for weight-related health problems. RESULTS: Women with disabilities experienced more discrimination, had more posttraumatic stress disorder and anxiety disorders, were less connected to SMW's communities, had more physical health limitations, and reported poorer quality of life, mostly related to physical factors such as energy level and pain. CONCLUSION: SMW with disabilities have rarely been studied, and may have significant challenges with health, including greater need for community support. Studies are needed to further explore the influences on the health and well-being of SMW with disabilities.PURPOSE: To compare same-day pain control and safety of 2 different anesthetic gels utilizing 5% and 2% lidocaine gel. Main outcome is to determine whether 5% lidocaine gel is more effective in decreasing pain during conjunctival clamping compared to 2% lidocaine gel 5 and 10 min after gel application. METHODS: This is a prospective, randomized double-blind clinical trial. Patients were randomized to receive 2% or 5% lidocaine gel in each eye. Discomfort during the gel instillation and pain during conjunctival clamping 5 and 10 min after gel application were compared. Extend of corneal conjunctival staining was graded according to the Oxford scale. RESULTS: Eighty eyes of 40 patients were enrolled. The groups were similar in gender, with a mean age of 48 ± 16.26 years. The 5% lidocaine gel resulted in higher discomfort during initial instillation (P = 0.092), however, the pain during conjunctival clamping was lower in the 5% lidocaine gel eyes (P = 0.564) in both, 5 and 10 min later (P < 0.001). The majority of patients (80%) had no corneal conjunctival dye staining. The tear break-up time was not statistically different after lidocaine gel 2% (20.35 ± 7.37 s) and lidocaine 5% (19.75 ± 7.00 s). CONCLUSION: Five percent and 2% lidocaine gel have similar efficacy controlling pain 5 min after instillation, however, 5% lidocaine gel appears to be more effective with a longer duration of action, without corneal toxicity. There was no corneal toxicity noted with either concentration.BACKGROUND: House dust mite (HDM) immunotherapy has proven efficacy in treating allergic rhinitis (AR) symptoms. This trial evaluated the dose-response relationship of SLIToneULTRA® HDM mix based on immunological parameters and safety in subjects with moderate-to-severe HDM AR not controlled by symptomatic medication. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A randomized, parallel-group, open-label, clinical trial compared 50/150/300 standard reactivity unit (SRU) doses of SLIToneULTRA® HDM mix for 6 months. Subjects had moderate-to-severe HDM AR, positive skin prick and IgE against Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus/Dermatophagoides farinae (DP/DF). The primary end point was change from baseline in the IgE-blocking factor against DP after 6 months. Secondary end points measured changes in the IgE-blocking factor for DP at 3 months and for DF at 3 and 6 months, and in IgG4 and specific IgE to DP/DF after 3 and 6 months. Tolerability was assessed through the evaluation of all adverse events (AEs). RESULTS: A total of 219 subjects were randomized and 196 completed the trial. Dose effect was significant on DP IgE-BF after 6 months (p = 0.018). The change in the DP IgE-blocking factor at a 300-SRU dose was higher than at other doses after 3 (p = 0.008) and 6 (p = 0005) months of treatment. Similar changes were observed for IgG4 and allergen-specific IgE. The number of AEs increased with the dose and were mild-to-moderate, with no severe treatment-related AEs reported. The most frequent AEs were oral/tongue pruritus, mouth oedema and abdominal upper pain. CONCLUSIONS: Data showed a dose-response for immunological markers and safety with a better immunological response for 300 SRU. The highest dose (300 SRU daily) was considered as the optimal maintenance dose.A 56-year-old man presented to the emergency department with a 5-hour history of throat swelling and pain and difficulty breathing that was exacerbated by supine positioning; he had not had any obvious antecedent trauma. His medical history included prostate cancer, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, deep-vein thrombosis, and stroke. Medications included warfarin (presumably for deep-vein thrombosis), antihypertensive agents, and a statin. He was afebrile, and the physical examination was notable for minor swelling of the posterior oropharynx. Laboratory studies revealed a normal white-cell count, an international normalized ratio of more than 11, a prothrombin time of more than 120 seconds, and an activated . . .A 38-year-old man presented with worsening abdominal pain, vomiting, anorexia, generalized weakness, and weight loss that had begun 3 days earlier. He had a history of eating raw beef. Examination of stool showed an embryonated egg containing an oncosphere.Background Effective and safe treatments are needed for patients who have irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with diarrhea. We conducted two phase 3 trials to assess the efficacy and safety of eluxadoline, a new oral agent with mixed opioid effects (μ- and κ-opioid receptor agonist and δ-opioid receptor antagonist), in patients with IBS with diarrhea. Methods We randomly assigned 2427 adults who had IBS with diarrhea to eluxadoline (at a dose of 75 mg or 100 mg) or placebo twice daily for 26 weeks (IBS-3002 trial) or 52 weeks (IBS-3001 trial). The primary end point was the proportion of patients who had a composite response of decrease in abdominal pain and improvement in stool consistency on the same day for at least 50% of the days from weeks 1 through 12 and from weeks 1 through 26. Results For weeks 1 through 12, more patients in the eluxadoline groups (75 mg and 100 mg) than in the placebo group reached the primary end point (IBS-3001 trial, 23.9% with the 75-mg dose and 25.1% with the 100-mg dose vs. 17.1% with placebo; P=0.01 and P=0.004, respectively; IBS-3002 trial, 28.9% and 29.6%, respectively, vs. 16.2%; P<0.001 for both comparisons). For weeks 1 through 26, the corresponding rates in IBS-3001 were 23.4% and 29.3% versus 19.0% (P=0.11 and P<0.001, respectively), and the corresponding rates in IBS-3002 were 30.4% and 32.7% versus 20.2% (P=0.001 and P<0.001, respectively). The most common adverse events associated with 75 mg of eluxadoline and 100 mg of eluxadoline, as compared with placebo, were nausea (8.1% and 7.5% vs. 5.1%), constipation (7.4% and 8.6% vs. 2.5%), and abdominal pain (5.8% and 7.2% vs. 4.1%). Pancreatitis developed in 5 (2 in the 75-mg group and 3 in the 100-mg group) of the 1666 patients in the safety population (0.3%). Conclusions Eluxadoline is a new therapeutic agent that reduced symptoms of IBS with diarrhea in men and women, with sustained efficacy over 6 months in patients who received the 100-mg dose twice daily. (Funded by Furiex Pharmaceuticals, an affiliate of Allergan; IBS-3001 and IBS-3002 ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT01553591 and NCT01553747 , respectively.).A retrospective study was conducted to review incidence, clinical practice, surgical management and histology of adolescent ovarian masses in order to audit and improve future practices. Complete hospital records of all adolescents between 10 and 20 years who had undergone surgery for ovarian masses were analysed between November 2006 to 2014. Parameters analysed were age, clinical features, diagnosis, operative procedure and histopathology. Ninety-four patients were included in the study and among them, 37 had non-neoplastic masses, 30 had benign neoplasms while 27 had malignant tumors. The main clinical presentations were abdominal pain (54%) and abdominal mass (41%). Dermoid was the most common benign neoplasm while germ cell tumor was the most common malignant mass; dysgerminoma being the commonest (68%). Malignancy was more common in early adolescence (12 ± 4.8 years) while non-neoplastic masses were seen more frequently in late adolescence (17.7 ± 2.2 years). There was a fair correlation between ultrasound and histopathological diagnosis.BACKGROUND: Despite previous efforts to explain the general advantages of female fetuses over males regarding health, sex-related differences in the dynamics or complexity of fetal heart rate (FHR) variability and FHR maturation patterns have not yet been identified. AIM: To make linear and nonlinear comparisons of antepartum FHR indices, dynamics, complexity, and reactivity to the non-stress test (NST) and vibroacoustic-stimulation test (VAST) in male and female fetuses. STUDY DESIGN: A total of 3835 singleton term deliveries without maternal and fetal complications were divided into female (n=1849) and male (n=1986) groups, and subjected to comparison and analyses. SUBJECTS: Linear FHR indices, approximate entropy (ApEn), sample entropy (SampEn), short-term/long-term exponents (α1/α2), correlation dimension (CD), NST and VAST criteria, and modified nonlinear reactive criteria (MNRC) were used to evaluate outcomes. RESULTS: ApEn was consistently higher in female fetuses than in male ones. ApEn in female fetuses was maximal at 29-30 gestational weeks, while the increase in ApEn was delayed in male fetuses but more rapid, reaching its peak at 31-32 gestational weeks. In both sexes, CD increased up to term, and α2 rapidly decreased up to 31-32weeks in an analogous manner. The two sexes differed significantly in response to VAST at <31 gestational weeks and there was a structural difference in reactive patterns under MNRC. CONCLUSIONS: Female fetuses exhibit greater heart rate dynamics in early gestational periods, suggesting that their cardiovascular system matures earlier than that of males. Male fetuses undergo a compensatory period of rapid change to catch up with females at term.OBJECTIVES: To clarify the pathophysiological factor underlying neural crosstalk among pelvic organs, we investigated the possible role of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the neural crosstalk between the testes and urinary bladder. METHODS: Nerve growth factor (10, 30, and 100 µg/mL) or saline was injected into the testes of male Wistar rats. The change in bladder capacity via cystometry and duration of spontaneous scratching behavior induced by NGF in conscious rats was measured. The effects of pretreatment with capsaicin on NGF-induced changes in bladder capacity and behavior were examined. Further, we evaluated the effect of analgesics, indomethacin and morphine, and pretreatment with compound 48/80 on NGF-induced scratching behavior to elucidate the mechanism of the behavior. RESULTS: Injection of saline into the testes had no effect on bladder capacity or behavior. However, an injection of NGF (30 and 100 µg/mL) reduced bladder capacity, which was regarded as bladder overactivity, and evoked scratching behavior in a dose-dependent manner. Pretreatment with capsaicin inhibited NGF-induced bladder overactivity and scratching behavior. Neither indomethacin nor pretreatment with compound 48/80 affected the scratching behavior, but morphine inhibited the behavior. CONCLUSIONS: The present study provides evidence of a possible new role of NGF in the testes regarding the activation of testicular primary afferent neurons mediated by capsaicin-sensitive C-fibers, which evokes bladder overactivity via neural crosstalk between the testes and the urinary bladder as well as testicular pain.INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to quantify the effect of exercise-induced muscle damage on both the electrochemical and mechanical components of electromechanical delay using very high frame rate ultrasound. METHODS: Fifteen participants underwent electrically-evoked contractions of the medial gastrocnemius muscle with an ultrasound transducer on the muscle belly and on the myotendinous junction, before, 1 hour, and 48 hours after eccentric exercise of the plantarflexor muscles. RESULTS: Maximal isometric plantarflexor torque was significantly lower at 1 hour (-41.1±14.9%; P=0.0001) and 48 hours post-exercise (-11.9±14.9%; P=0.038) than pre-exercise values. However, the delay between electrical stimulation and the onset of muscle activation, the delay between electrical stimulation and myotendinous junction motion, and the electromechanical delay were not altered significantly by eccentric exercise (P=0.063). DISCUSSION: These findings suggest that moderate muscle damage does not affect the time for the electrochemical or mechanical components of electromechanical delay. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.Attentional biases reflect an individual's selective attention to salient stimuli within their environment, for example an experience of back pain. Eysenck suggests that different personality types show different attentional biases to threatening information. This study is the first to test Eysenck's theory within a chronic back pain population by investigating the attentional biases of four different personality types using a back pain specific dot-probe paradigm. Participants were 70 volunteers (45 female) recruited from a back rehabilitation program at an NHS Trust. The four groups were selected on their trait anxiety and defensiveness scores: defensive high-anxious; high-anxious; repressor and non-extreme. Participants completed a dot probe task comprising 20 practice trials and 250 experimental trials. The experimental trials contained 100 threat-neutral pairs, 100 positive-neutral pairs and 50 neutral-neutral image pairings. The threat images were taken from the Photograph Series of Daily Activities (PHODA) and the neutral and positive images from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS) image bank. The results provided partial support for Eysenck's theory; defensive high-anxious individuals showed an attentional bias for threatening information compared to high-anxious individuals who demonstrated no bias. Repressors showed an avoidant bias to threatening images and an attentional bias to positive stimuli relative to neutral images. The clear difference in responses demonstrated by high-anxious individuals who vary in defensiveness highlight the need for separate investigation of these heterogeneous groups and help to explain the cognitive processes of defensive high-anxious individuals within a pain population. The demonstration of an attentional bias in this group to threatening information could explain why defensive high-anxious individuals are more likely to re-present for treatment.PMID: 26789435  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]BACKGROUND: Pelvic congestion syndrome (PCS) is described as chronic pelvic pain (CPP) arising from dilated and refluxing pelvic veins, although the causal relationship between pelvic vein incompetence (PVI) and CPP is not established. Non-invasive screening methods such as Doppler ultrasound and magnetic resonance venography are used before confirmation by venography. Percutaneous embolisation has become the principal treatment for PCS, with high success rates often cited. OBJECTIVES: Our proposal aimed to systematically and critically review the definitions and diagnostic criteria of PCS, the association between PVI and CPP, the accuracy of various non-invasive imaging techniques and the effectiveness of embolisation for PVI; and to identify factors associated with successful outcome. We also wished to survey clinicians and patients to assess awareness and management of PCS and gauge the enthusiasm for further research. DATA SOURCES: A comprehensive search strategy encompassing various terms for pelvic congestion, pain, imaging techniques and embolisation was deployed in 17 bibliographic databases, including MEDLINE, EMBASE and Web of Science. There was no restriction on study design. METHODS: Methodological quality was assessed using appropriate tools. Online surveys were sent to clinicians and patients. The quality and heterogeneity generally precluded meta-analysis and so results were tabulated and described narratively. RESULTS: We identified six association studies, 10 studies involving ultrasound, two studies involving magnetic resonance venography, 21 case series and one poor-quality randomised trial of embolisation. There were no consistent diagnostic criteria for PCS. We found that the associations between CPP and PVI were generally fairly similar, with three of five studies with sufficient data showing statistically significant associations (odds ratios of between 31 and 117). The prevalence of PVI ranged widely, although the majority of women with PVI had CPP. Transvaginal ultrasound with Doppler and magnetic resonance venography are both useful screening methods, although the data on accuracy are limited. Early substantial relief from pain symptoms was observed in approximately 75% of women undergoing embolisation, a figure which generally increased over time and was sustained. Reintervention rates were generally low. Transient pain was a common occurrence following foam embolisation, while there was a < 2% risk of coil migration. Confidence in the embolisation technique is reasonably high, although there is a desire to strengthen the evidence base. Even among women with CPP, fewer than half had any knowledge about PCS. CONCLUSIONS: The data supporting the diagnosis and treatment of PCS are limited and of variable methodological quality. There is some evidence to tentatively support a causative association, but it cannot be categorically stated that PVI is the cause of CPP in women with no other pathology, as the six most pertinent drew on clinically disparate populations and defined PVI inconsistently. Embolisation appears to provide symptomatic relief in the majority of women and is safe. However, the majority of included studies of embolism were relatively small case series and only the randomised controlled trial was considered at risk of potential biases. There is scope and demand for considerable further research. The question of the association of PVI and CPP requires a well-designed and well-powered case-control study, which will also provide data to derive a diagnostic standard. An adequately powered randomised trial is essential to provide evidence on the effectiveness of embolisation, but this faces methodological challenges. STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42012002237 and CRD42012002238. FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.AIM: To report on a novel method to instrument a dilacerated double curved mandibular premolar SUMMARY: A 45-year-old female was referred suffering from diffuse pain emanating from the mandibular right quadrant. The second premolar (tooth 45) was diagnosed with symptomatic irreversible pulpitis. The radiographic examination revealed a dilacerated s-shaped root configuration, with 2 severe curvatures of less than 2 mm radius. Under local anaesthesia and rubber dam isolation, a glide path was created until a size 10 K-file reached working length. Instrumentation to larger size was achieved with a novel approach using controlled memory files. The controlled memory files were precurved and passively inserted below the curvature until maximum frictional resistance. The motor was activated by maintaining light apical pressure and the files were withdrawn from the canal. This procedure was repeated until each file could reach the working length. Chemical disinfection was achieved with positive syringe irrigation of 6% NaOCl, followed by 17% EDTA rinsing and manual dynamic gutta-percha activation of the irrigants. Canal filling was achieved using the continuous wave of condensation technique and thermoplasticized injectable gutta-percha backfill. The postoperative radiography revealed that the initial canal anatomy of the dilacerated double curved root canal was preserved. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.OBJECTIVES: Ketoprofen is an analgesic, anti-inflammatory agent commonly used in the management of chronic musculoskeletal pain. The aim of this study is to characterize the percutaneous absorption of 2 ketoprofen formulations (ketoprofen 10% in Pluronic Lecithin Organogel (PLO) and ketoprofen 10% in Lipoderm, referred to as Phospholipid Base), when applied to the human cadaver trunk skin, in vitro, using the Franz skin finite dose model. PLO and Phospholipid Base are vehicles used to facilitate the delivery of drugs into and through the skin following topical applications. METHODS: The percutaneous absorption of ketoprofen was evaluated using human cadaver trunk skin from 3 donors. The skin was cut into small sections and cultured within Franz diffusion cells. A variable finite dose of each formulation was then applied to 3 replicate skin sections per donor and receptor solutions were collected at predetermined time points (0, 4, 8, 12, 24, 32, and 48 hr). After the last receptor sample was collected, skin surfaces were washed and split into epidermis and dermis. Collected samples were analyzed using HPLC. RESULTS: Both PLO and Phospholipid Base were capable of facilitating the absorption of ketoprofen across human cadaver trunk skin. However, ketoprofen, when in Phospholipid Base, showed higher mean total absorption (p=0.022) and faster rate of absorption (p<0.05 at 2, 6, 10, and 18 hr) than when in PLO. CONCLUSION: Chronic musculoskeletal pain can be a major burden for most patients, affecting their lifestyle and reducing overall quality of life. When compared to PLO, Phospholipid Base has the ability to potentially deliver higher concentrations of ketoprofen to underlying soft tissues and at a more rapid rate. With more ketoprofen at the site of injury, the analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects will likely be enhanced, potentially reducing pain and improving quality of life.AIM: During the last decades, therapies targeting cervical cancer have been considerably improved. Surgery and radiotherapy (RT) represent the main common therapeutic approach in cervical cancer. In order to minimize the side effects of radiotherapy approach, several protocols have been developed such as brachytherapy (BRT). Among the side effects associated with RT, the vaginal atrophy is the most important and common one. Vaginal atrophy, in turn, leads to additional alterations like inflammation, associated to relevant symptoms such as itching, burning and dyspareunia. All these alterations heavily affect the quality of women's life. The aim of our study was to evaluate the toxicity induced by RT on vaginal mucosa, and the adjuvant action of a product containing LMWHA, vitamin A, and Vitamin E (Santes®, Lo.Li. Pharma, Rome, Italy). The introduction of adjuvant therapies may have likely had a relevant place in providing that result. METHODS: A prospective randomized study was designed. From October 2006 to October 2008, 45 women with a mean age 38±6 years were enrolled. After surgery, all patients were treated with 4 weeks of RT and 4 weeks of BRT, concomitantly with chemiotherapy. They were randomly assigned in two groups: 23 women were treated with two suppositories (Santes®) per day for 4 months. For the first two months the preventive treatment was simultaneous to RT and BRT. Instead the control groups for composed by 22 patients and they did not undergo any treatment during RT. To evaluate the efficacy of Santes® treatment three biopsies were performed. RESULTS: At the second biopsy, after the BRT therapy, the treated group showed a statistically significant improvement (P<0.05 vs. control) on inflammation, cell atypia, fibrosis, mucositis and bleeding. At the third biopsy, two months after BRT, further statistically improvement were observed for all RT/BRT associated side effects. The treatment showed an efficacy also in terms of pain severity. CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that low molecular weight HA shows good performances in treating RT-damaged tissue and plays a key role in all steps of the healing process. Indeed the results shows that women exposed to RT treatments and simultaneously treated with Santes®, had an optimal resolution of vaginal atrophy and related symptoms.PMID: 26788862  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]BACKGROUND: An order protocol for distress (OPD), including respiratory distress and acute pain crisis, has been established for pediatric palliative care patients at Sainte-Justine Hospital (SJH). After discussion with the patient/his or her family, the OPD is prescribed by the attending physician whenever judged appropriate. The OPD can then be initiated by the bedside nurse when necessary; the physician is notified after the first dose is administered. OBJECTIVES: The study objectives were to evaluate the perceptions and experience of the medical/nursing staff towards the use of the OPD. METHODS: A survey was distributed to all physicians/nurses working on wards with pediatric palliative care patients. Answers to the survey were anonymous, done on a voluntary basis, and after consent of the participant. RESULTS: Surveys (258/548) were answered corresponding to a response rate of 47%. According to the respondents, the most important motivations in using the OPD were the desire to relieve patient's distress and the speed of relief of distress by the OPD; the most important obstacles were going against the patient's/his or her family's wishes and fear of hastening death. The respondents reported that the OPD was frequently (56%) or always (36%) effective in relieving the patient's distress. The respondents felt sometimes (16%), frequently (34%), or always (41%) comfortable in giving the OPD. They thought the OPD could never (12%), rarely (32%), sometimes (46%), frequently (8%), or always (1%) hasten death. Physicians were less favorable than nurses with the autonomy of bedside nurses to initiate the OPD before notifying the physician (p = 0.04). Overall, 95% of respondents considered that they would use the OPD in the future. CONCLUSIONS: Data from this survey shows that respondents are in favor of using the OPD at SJH and find it effective. Further training as well as support for health care professionals are mandatory in such palliative care settings.PMID: 26788763  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]Chronic pain is an important public health problem that negatively impacts quality of life of affected individuals and exacts enormous socio-economic costs. Chronic pain is often accompanied by comorbid emotional disorders including anxiety, depression and possibly anhedonia. The neural circuits underlying the intersection of pain and pleasure are not well understood. We summarize recent human and animal investigations demonstrating that aversive aspects of pain are encoded in brain regions overlapping with areas processing reward and motivation. We highlight findings revealing anatomical and functional alterations of reward/motivation circuits in chronic pain. Finally, we review supporting evidence for the concept that pain relief is rewarding and activates brain reward/motivation circuits. Adaptations in brain reward circuits may be fundamental to the pathology of chronic pain. Knowledge of brain reward processing in the context of pain could lead to the development of new therapeutics for the treatment of emotional aspects of pain and comorbid conditions. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.INTRODUCTION: Malignant tumors of the parotid gland account scarcely for 5% of all head and neck tumors. Most of these neoplasms have a high tendency for recurrence, local infiltration, perineural extension, and metastasis. Although uncommon, these malignant tumors require complex surgical treatment sometimes involving a total parotidectomy including a complete facial nerve resection. Severe functional and aesthetic facial defects are the result of a complete sacrifice or injury to isolated branches becoming an uncomfortable distress for patients and a major challenge for reconstructive surgeons. CASE REPORT: A case of a 54-year-old, systemically healthy male patient with a 4 month complaint of pain and swelling on the right side of the face is presented. The patient reported a rapid increase in the size of the lesion over the past 2 months. Imaging tests and histopathological analysis reported an adenoid cystic carcinoma. A complete parotidectomy was carried out with an intraoperative notice of facial nerve infiltration requiring a second intervention for nerve and defect reconstruction. A free ALT flap with vascularized nerve grafts was the surgical choice. A 6 month follow-up showed partial facial movement recovery and the facial defect mended. CONCLUSION: It is of critical importance to restore function to patients with facial nerve injury. Vascularized nerve grafts, in many clinical and experimental studies, have shown to result in better nerve regeneration than conventional non-vascularized nerve grafts. Nevertheless, there are factors that may affect the degree, speed and regeneration rate regarding the free fasciocutaneous flap. In complex head and neck defects following a total parotidectomy, the extended free fasciocutaneous ALT (anterior-lateral thigh) flap with a vascularized nerve graft is ideally suited for the reconstruction of the injured site. Donor-site morbidity is low and additional surgical time is minimal compared with the time of a single ALT flap transfer.INTRODUCTION: Tonsillectomy is the one of the most common types of surgery in children, and is often accompanied by post-operative pain and discomfort. Methods of pain control such as use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), narcotics, and local anesthetics have been used, but each have their own particular side effects. In this study we investigated the effect of ketamine on post-operative sedation and pain relief. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 50 children aged between 5 and 12 years who were candidates for tonsillectomy were divided into two groups. The study group received ketamine-midazolam (ketamine 1 mg/kg, midazolam 0.1 mg/kg) and the control group received midazolam (0.1 mg/kg) in the pre-operative period. The same methods of anesthesia induction and maintenance were used in all patients. Pain score was assessed using the Wong-Baker Faces Pain Rating scale and sedation was evaluated using the Riker Sedation-Agitation scale at the time of extubation as well as 5, 10, 15, and 30 minutes and 1, 2, and 6 hours after surgery. RESULTS: The two groups were similar in terms of age, weight, gender and duration of surgery. Pain after 15 and 30 minutes and agitation after 10 and 15 minutes following extubation were lower in the study group (ketamine-midazolam). Mean consumption and time of first request for analgesia after surgery as well as incidence of post-operative vomiting were similar in the two groups. CONCLUSION: Adding ketamine to midazolam in pre-operative of tonsillectomy reduces agitation and post-operative pain in the first 30 minutes after surgery.INTRODUCTION: Controversy remains as to the advantages and disadvantages of pharyngeal packing during septorhinoplasty. Our study investigated the effect of pharyngeal packing on postoperative nausea and vomiting and sore throat following this type of surgery or septorhinoplasty. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This clinical trial was performed on 90 American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) I or II patients who were candidates for septorhinoplasty. They were randomly divided into two groups. Patients in the study group had received pharyngeal packing while those in the control group had not. The incidence of nausea and vomiting and sore throat based on the visual analog scale (VAS) was evaluated postoperatively in the recovery room as well as at 2, 6 and 24 hours. RESULTS: The incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) was 12.3%, with no significant difference between the study and control groups. Sore throat was reported in 50.5% of cases overall (56.8% on pack group and 44.4% on control). Although the severity of pain was higher in the study group at all times, the incidence in the two groups did not differ significantly. CONCLUSION: The use of pharyngeal packing has no effect in reducing the incidence of nausea and vomiting and sore throat after surgery. Given that induced hypotension is used as the routine method of anesthesia in septorhinoplasty surgery, with a low incidence of hemorrhage and a high risk of unintended retention of pharyngeal packing, its routine use is not recommended for this procedure.INTRODUCTION: Deep neck space infections (DNSI) are serious diseases that involve several spaces in the neck. The common primary sources of DNSI are dental infections, tonsillar and salivary gland infections, malignancies, and foreign bodies. With widespread use of antibiotics, the prevalence of DNSI has been reduced. Common complications of DNSI include airway obstruction, jugular vein thrombosis, and sepsis. Treatment principally comprises airway management, antibiotic therapy, and surgical intervention. This study was conducted to investigate the age and sex distribution of patients, symptoms, presentation, sites involved, bacteriology, and management and complications of DNSI. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective study was performed from October 2010 to January 2013, and included 76 patients with DNSI. Patients of all age groups and gender were included. All parameters including age, gender, co-morbidities, presentation, site, bacteriology, complications, and required interventions were studied. RESULTS: In our study, the majority of patients were in the 31-50-year age group. Males accounted for 55.26% of the sample and females for 44.74%, with a male:female ratio of 1.23. Most of the patients were from a rural background. Diabetes was found as a co-morbid condition in 10.52% cases. Neck pain was the most common symptom, identified in 89.47% cases. The most common etiological factor was odontogenic infection (34.21%), followed by tonsillar and pharyngeal infection (27.63%). The most common presentation was Ludwig's angina (28.94%), followed by peritonsillar abscess and submandibular abscess. In 50% of cases, Streptococcus and Staphylococcus were found in the culture. Surgical intervention was carried out in 89.47% cases. Emergency tracheotomy was required in 5.26% cases. CONCLUSION: DNSI can be life-threatening in diabetic patients, the immunocompromised, and elderly patients, and special attention should therefore be given to these groups. Early diagnosis and treatment is essential to prevent complications. All patients must be treated initially with intravenous antibiotics, with treatment subsequently updated based on a culture and sensitivity report. Due to poor oral hygiene, lack of nutrition, smoking and chewing of beetle nut and tobacco, odontogenic infections are the most common cause of DNSI. Thus, DNSI could be prevented by making the population aware of dental and oral hygiene and offering regular check-ups for dental infections.AIM: To elucidate the clinical, radiological and laboratory proﬁles of renal abscess (RA) and perinephric abscess (PNA), along with related treatment and outcome. METHODS: Ninety-eight patients diagnosed with RA or PNA using the primary discharge diagnoses identified from the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems Tenth Edition (ICD-10) codes (RA: N15.101, PNA: N15.102) between September 2004 and December 2014 in West China Hospital were selected. Medical records including patients' characteristics, symptoms and signs, high-risk factors, radiological features, causative microorganisms and antibiotic-resistance proﬁles, treatment approaches, and clinical outcomes were collected and analyzed. RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 46.49 years with a male to female ratio of 41:57. Lumbar pain (76.5%) and fever (53.1%) were the most common symptoms. Other symptoms and signs included chills (28.6%), anorexia and vomiting (25.5%), lethargy (10.2%), abdominal pain (11.2%), flank mass (12.2%), flank fistula (2.0%), gross hematuria (7.1%), frequency (14.3%), dysuria (9.2%), pyuria (5.1%) and weight loss (1.0%). Painful percussion of the costovertebral angle (87.8%) was the most common physical finding. The main predisposing factors were lithiasis (48.0%), diabetes mellitus (33.7%) followed by history of urological surgery (16.3%), urinary tract infections (14.3%), renal function impairment (13.3%), liver cirrhosis (2.0%), neurogenic bladder (1.0%), renal cyst (1.0%), hydronephrosis (1.0%), chronic hepatitis B (1.0%), post-discectomy (1.0%) and post-colectomy (1.0%). Ultrasound (US) and computed tomography were the most valuable diagnostic tools and US was recommended as the initial diagnostic imaging choice. Escherichia coli (51.4%), Staphylococcus aureus (10.0%) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (8.6%) were the main causative microorganisms. Intravenous antibiotic therapy was necessary while intervention including surgical and nonsurgical approaches were reserved for larger abscesses, multiple abscesses, PNAs and non-responders. CONCLUSION: Heightened alertness, prompt diagnosis, and especially proper antibiotics in conjunction with interventional approaches allow a promising clinical outcome of renal and perinephric abscesses.A 6-year-old girl presented with intermittent abdominal pain, without jaundice and a palpable mass in the epigastrium. Preoperative imaging and upper endoscopy suggested duodenal duplication. During surgery, the patient was diagnosed with a rare type of choledochal cyst-choledochocele (type 3b). The authors emphasize that, in children, choledochocele should be included in the differential diagnosis of cystic lesions located in the duodenal area and the head of the pancreas area, regardless of jaundice or abnormal liver function. Since mucosal histology showing duodenal mucosa did not match the final diagnosis, we suggest that three criteria should be met for the diagnosis of a choledochocele to be diagnosed: (1) a cyst protruding into the duodenal lumen; (2) filling with contrast during cholangiography and (3) a filling defect on X-ray barium meal.We are hereby reporting a case where the eggs and adults of the mold mites; Tyrophagus putrescentiae (Shrank) and the trophozoites of Blastocystis sp. were found in stool of three years old child from Minia City, Egypt. Intestinal mite infection was diagnosed after repeated identification of mite' stages from six consecutive stool samples to exclude the possibilities of contamination and spurious infection. The patient was suffering from severe colicky abdominal pain and burning sensation around the anus one month ago. All other members of his family were having the same acarine in their feces, but were all symptomless. The patient was treated with ivermectin 200 µg/kg body weight once every 10 days for three doses. His cure indicated that he was having asymptomatic blastocystosis.A 70-year-old man presented with lower back pain and cyanotic changes in his left lower extremity. He was diagnosed with infected aortic aneurysm and infectious spondylitis. He had received intravesical Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) therapy up to 1 month before the onset of symptoms. The aneurysm was excised and an aorto-biiliac interposition graft was performed. Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was cultured in the surgical specimens. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting the senX3-regX3 region, and multiplex PCR using dual-priming oligonucleotide primers targeting the RD1 gene, revealed that the organism isolated was Mycobacterium bovis BCG. The patient took anti-tuberculosis medication for 1 year, and there was no evidence of recurrence at 18 months follow-up.BACKGROUND: The efficacy of antiretroviral therapy (ART) has improved, and the adverse effects of antiretroviral drugs have been reduced. However, these adverse effects still significantly influence patient compliance, increasing the risk of tolerability failure. Therefore, we investigated the adverse effects and tolerability failure causing changes in the first ART regimen, and identified the regimens that were most vulnerable to switching. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We enrolled patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) who commenced their first ART between January 1, 2011 and July 30, 2014. Patients who started their first ART regimen at the Kyungpook National University Hospital were included in the study if they were aged ≥18 years and were followed-up for ≥12 weeks. The primary dependent variable was the duration of treatment on the same ART regimen. We analyzed the maintenance rate of the first ART regimen based on the treatment duration between these groups using survival analysis and log rank test. The frequency of the adverse effects of ART regimens was analyzed by multiple response data analysis. RESULTS: During the investigation period, 137 patients were enrolled. Eighty-one patients were maintained on the initial treatment regimen (59.1%). In protease inhibitor (PI)-based regimen group, 54 patients were maintained on the initial treatment regimen (54/98, 55.1%). In non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-and integrase inhibitor (II)-based regimen group, 15 (15/26, 57.7%) and 12 (12/13, 92.3%) patients were maintained on the initial treatment regimen, respectively. Adverse effects that induced ART switching included rash (16/35, 45.7%), gastrointestinal discomfort or pain (7/35, 20%), diarrhea (7/35, 20%), hyperbilirubinemia (6/35, 17.1%), headache or dizziness (3/35, 8.5%). Among the treatment regimens, the group receiving an II-based regimen showed the least switching. The group receiving PI-and NRTI-based regimens were most likely to switch due to adverse effects during the early treatment period. However, after about 18 months, switching was rarely observed in these groups. Among the PI drugs, darunavir/ritonavir showed fewer drug changes than atazanavir/ritonavir (P = 0.004, log rank test) and lopinavir/ritonavir (P = 0.010). Among the NNRTI drugs, rilpivirne produced less switching than efavirenz (P = 0.045). CONCLUSIONS: Adverse effects to ART resulted in about a quarter of patients switching drugs during the early treatment period. II-based regimens were advantageous because they were less likely to induce switching within 18 months of treatment commencement. These findings indicated the importance of considering and monitoring the adverse effects of ART in order to improve adherence.Inferior vena cava agenesis (IVCA) is a rare congenital anomaly that can be asymptomatic or present with vague, nonspecific symptoms, such as abdominal or lower back pain, or deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Here, we present a 55-year-old male who came with painless swelling and redness of his left lower limb. On examination, swelling and redness were noted extending from the left foot to the upper thigh; it was also warm compared to his right lower limb. Venous Doppler ultrasound was done which showed DVT extending up to the common femoral vein. Subsequently, computed-tomography (CT) of the chest and abdomen was done to exclude malignancy or venous flow obstruction; it revealed congenital absence (agenesis) of the infrarenal inferior vena cava (IVC).Teratomas are unusual tumours that derived from totipotent cells with their origin from more than one or usually all three germ cells. Here authors are presenting a case of primary retroperitoneal tumour that is a rare clinical entity. A 19-year-old male presented with right lumbar pain and was found to have complex cyst with large calcification in right adrenal gland on imaging. Intraoperatively, he was found to have a solid mass with areas of soft consistency, which was excised en bloc. On gross examination, the cyst contained pieces of bone, few teeth, and hairs entangled in mucinous material. On histological evaluation, it was confirmed to be mature teratoma arising from the right adrenal gland. He made uneventful recovery and was kept well on annual follow-up.Subcutaneous emphysema is a known complication of carbon dioxide insufflation, an essential component of laparoscopy. The literature contains reports of hypercarbia, pneumothorax, or pneumomediastinum. However, isolated lower extremity subcutaneous emphysema remains a seldom-reported complication. We report a case of unilateral lower extremity subcutaneous emphysema following robotic-assisted hysterectomy, bilateral salpingooophorectomy, staging, and anterior/posterior colporrhaphy for carcinosarcoma and vaginal prolapse. On postoperative day 1, the patient developed tender crepitus and bruising of her right ankle. Radiography confirmed presence of subcutaneous air. Vital signs and laboratory findings were unremarkable. Her symptoms spontaneously improved over time, and she was discharged in good condition on day 2. In stable patients with postoperative extremity swelling or pain with crepitus on exam, the diagnosis of iatrogenic subcutaneous emphysema must be considered.Ovarian vein thrombosis (OVT) is an extremely rare but life-threatening complication of the postpartum period. It has never been reported as a complication of laparoscopic surgery. We report a case of right ovarian vein thrombosis that occurred in the postoperative period after patient underwent laparoscopic salpingectomy for a right side ectopic pregnancy. She presented with 1-week history of abdominal pain and fever. A complete workup for fever was performed and was found negative. Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis revealed right ovarian vein thrombosis. The patient was treated with anticoagulant therapy and responded well.We describe an unusual case of hairy cell leukemia (HCL) in a 55-year-old male presenting with isolated skeletal disease as the initial manifestation without abnormal peripheral blood counts, bone marrow involvement, or splenomegaly. To the best of our knowledge, there have been only two previous reports of a similar case. The patient presented with pain in the right femur. Anteroposterior radiographs of both femurs revealed mixed lytic-sclerotic lesions. PET scan showed multiple metastatic lesions on axial skeleton, pelvis, and both femurs. Histopathological examination of the bone biopsy revealed an infiltrate of HCL. Localized radiation therapy to both proximal femurs and subsequently 4 weeks later, a 7-day course of 0.1 mg/kg/day cladribine provided complete remission with relief of symptoms and resolution of bone lesions. We addressed the manifestations and management of HCL patients with skeletal involvement.Purpose. In knee osteoarthritis, the degree of pain varies despite similar imaging findings. If there were quantitative findings related to the pain of knee osteoarthritis, it could be used for diagnosis or screening. The medial meniscal extrusion was investigated as a candidate quantitative finding related to the pain of knee osteoarthritis. Methods. Seventy-six knees of 38 patients (mean age, 73 years) who received intra-articular injections of hyaluronic acid into unilateral knees at the time of diagnosis of knee arthritis were investigated. Cartilage thickness of the femoral medial condyle and medial meniscal extrusion of bilateral knees were measured by ultrasonography. Thirty-eight knees that had hyaluronic acid injections were compared with 38 other side knees from the same patients as the control group. Results. The average cartilage thicknesses of the knees with pain that received intra-articular injections and the knees without pain that received no injections were 1.02 and 1.05 mm, respectively (P = 0.6394). On the other hand, the average medial meniscal extrusions of the knees with and without pain were 7.58 and 5.88 mm, respectively (P = 0.0005); pain was associated with greater medial meniscal extrusions. Conclusion. Medial meniscal extrusion is a quantitative finding related to the pain of knee osteoarthritis.Manual therapy has long been a component of physical rehabilitation programs, especially to treat those in pain. The mechanisms of manual therapy, however, are not fully understood, and it has been suggested that its pain modulatory effects are of neurophysiological origin and may be mediated by the descending modulatory circuit. Therefore, the purpose of this review is to examine the neurophysiological response to different types of manual therapy, in order to better understand the neurophysiological mechanisms behind each therapy's analgesic effects. It is concluded that different forms of manual therapy elicit analgesic effects via different mechanisms, and nearly all therapies appear to be at least partially mediated by descending modulation. Additionally, future avenues of mechanistic research pertaining to manual therapy are discussed.The motor imagery (MI) has been proposed as a treatment in the complex regional pain syndrome type 1 (CRPS-1), since it seems to promote a brain reorganization effect on sensory-motor areas of pain perception. The aim of this paper is to investigate, through an integrative critical review, the influence of MI on the CRPS-1, correlating their evidence to clinical practice. Research in PEDro, Medline, Bireme and Google Scholar databases was conducted. Nine randomized controlled trials (level 2), 1 non-controlled clinical study (level 3), 1 case study (level 4), 1 systematic review (level 1), 2 review articles and 1 comment (level 5) were found. We can conclude that MI has shown effect in reducing pain and functionality that remains after 6 months of treatment. However, the difference between the MI strategies for CRPS-1 is unknown as well as the intensity of mental stress influences the painful response or effect of MI or other peripheral neuropathies.The current study reports the case of a 61-year-old man with diabetes who was suffering from generalized pain over the whole body and gradually progressive numbness. The patient was initially diagnosed with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and received treatment, however, the symptoms persisted. In October 2010, the patient was admitted to the Chinese People's Liberation Army Navy General Hospital (Beijing, China) for the treatment of diabetes, however, a full-body sharp pain was also described, which was relieved upon massaging the area. Causes, other than diabetes, were investigated for these symptoms. Chest computed tomography and positron emission tomography-computed tomography scans revealed a mass shadow in the right lower lobe of the lung, with multiple lymphatic metastases. Lung cancer was diagnosed with a tumor-node-metastasis stage of T1N3Mx. Following treatment of the cancer with chemotherapy and radiotherapy, the patient's symptoms were significantly improved. The present study reports a rare case of a paraneoplastic neurological syndrome (PNS) that presented as painful neuropathy resulting from lung cancer, which mimicked diabetic peripheral neuropathy.Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT) is a rare type of mesenchymal tumor, which may affect various organs. The preferential site for IMT in the genitourinary system is the urinary bladder, while the presence of IMT in the kidney, and particularly in the renal pelvis, is rare. In the present report, the case of a 43-year-old man who was admitted to the Department of Urology of The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University (Changsha, China) in July 2012, with complaints of iterative gross hematuria and abdominal pain unresponsive to antibiotics is described. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging indicated a slightly enhanced mass in the left renal pelvis of 1.5 cm in diameter. On request of the patient, a left nephrectomy was then performed, based on a suspected diagnosis of renal pelvic carcinoma. However, analysis of the intraoperative fast-frozen section exhibited proliferation of compact spindle cells, suggesting IMT. Therefore, further ureterectomy was avoided, and the patient remained in healthy condition thereafter.There is a low incidence of multiple primary cancer, particularly when the cancer is synchronous. The present report presents a case of synchronous double primary malignancies. A 58-year-old woman was admitted to Ling Nan Hospital (Guangzhou, China) complaining of pain in the left hip. X-ray revealed an osteolytic lesion and further examination indicated the presence of double primary cancer, consisting of hepatic cholangiocarcinoma and thyroid carcinoma. Biopsy of the osteolytic lesion showed a metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknown origin. Subsequently, final diagnosis was confirmed by I-131 scan and liver lesion biopsy. The patient received positive multidisciplinary treatments and survived for 9 months following diagnosis. The results of the present case suggest that multiplicity of primary malignancy is not necessarily an indicator of poor prognosis, as long as effective diagnosis and adequate disease management are achieved.As an uncommon subtype of meningioma, chordoid meningioma (CM) of the spinal canal is extremely rare. There have been only two reported cases of intraspinal CM in the literature, and this lesion has not been previously reported in the pediatric age group. To the best of our knowledge, the present study reports the first case of spinal chordoid meningioma in a pediatric patient. A 12-year-old female presented with a 3-month history of progressive numbness and weakness in the right-side limbs, and intermittent pain in the neck and right shoulder. Spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed an intraspinal lesion at the C2-3 level with irregularly heterogeneous enhancement. The patient underwent a C2-3 laminotomy. Due to adhesion to the dura and proximity to the vertebral artery, the tumor was partially removed intraoperatively. The post-operative course was uneventful and the symptoms were apparently relieved. The patient experienced recurrence 5 years subsequent to surgery. MRI revealed an extradural regrown tumor at the C2-5 level. Partial removal combined with radiotherapy was performed. However, the patient experienced progression of tetraplegia and succumbed to severe pneumonia and respiratory failure 5 months subsequent to the second surgery. In the present study, the clinicoradiological findings and treatment outcome of this rare entity are discussed, in addition to a review of the relevant literature. Spinal CMs should be included in the differential diagnosis of intraspinal tumors of the pediatric spine. Multidisciplinary treatment, consisting of total surgical removal and adjuvant radiotherapy, should be considered due to the aggressive nature of this abnormality and the risk of long-term recurrence.Synovial sarcoma (SS) is a soft-tissue tumor with a unique t(X;18)(p11.2;q11.2) chromosomal translocation that can be identified by polymerase chain reaction in tissue homogenates. Generally, the tumor occurs in the proximity of the joints. The current study presents the case of a 54-year-old female with primary SS (PSS) of the right kidney; this is an extremely rare tumor accounting for <2% of malignant renal carcinomas. The patient presented with an interrupted right flank pain of 20 years duration, with a precipitating factor of a hematuria of 8 days. Abdominal computerized tomography (CT) scan revealed a heterogeneous, unclear-marginated soft tissue arising in the upper pole of the right kidney with solid, necrotic components and heterogeneous enhancement. Renal cell carcinoma was diagnosed pre-operatively. A right nephrectomy was performed, and the patient is currently free of metastasis 12 months after the surgery. The current treatment for renal SS includes surgical resection and ifosfamide-based chemotherapy. To the best of our knowledge, <50 cases have been reported in the English literature. Urologists should be aware of the possibility of malignancy in cystic renal masses and consider a diagnosis of SS. Along with the case report, the current study presents a literature review on the diagnosis and treatment of PSS.Reconstruction following periacetabular tumor resection of the pelvis is one of the most challenging issues in limb salvage surgery. An ideal procedure has still not been established. There are several reconstruction methods available, including arthrodesis, pseudoarthrosis, resection arthroplasty, prosthetic arthroplasty, saddle prosthesis, allograft and hip transposition. In our hospital, we have been using a flail hip joint procedure without reconstruction. Herein, we report good extremity function following a flail hip joint procedure which used the upper surface of the femoral neck as a saddle facing the remaining ilium. To the best of our knowledge, among the reported flail hip joint cases, this procedure has never been used. The patient is able to walk without any pain for several hundred meters with a shoe lift but without a cane, as observed at a 20-year follow-up. The authors consider that the flail hip joint using the upper surface of the femoral neck as a saddle is a simple and effective method.Clinical reports of kidney metastases derived from an invasive mole (IM) are rare. The present study presents the case of a 42-year-old woman who exhibited IM and bilateral kidneys metastases in what may be, to the best of our knowledge, the first report of such a case. Following an induced abortion, the patient initially experienced irregular vaginal bleeding and subsequently presented with left-sided waist and abdominal pain. The patient was admitted to hospital and was clinically diagnosed with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN), as well as bilateral kidney metastases and a spontaneous rupture of the left kidney. This diagnosis was based on the patient's medical history, which comprised increased levels of human chorionic gonadotropin β and aberrant results on computed tomography (CT) scans. The patient subsequently received conservative management to prevent renal damage, and a standard etoposide, methotrexate, actinomycin D, cyclophosphamide and vincristine chemotherapy regimen for GTN was administered. Following eight cycles of chemotherapy, a follow-up CT examination indicated that the damage in the patient's left kidney could not be corrected with conservative treatments, therefore the left kidney was excised and a laparoscopic hysterectomy was performed. The pathological results were consistent with the clinical diagnosis and allowed further classification of the primary tumor as an IM. The present case demonstrated that it is possible for IM to metastasize to the kidney, and furthermore, that this type of metastatic tumor may be fragile and possess the potential to cause spontaneous kidney rupture.Severe ocular surface disease can result in limbal stem cell deficiency (LSCD), a condition leading to decreased visual acuity, photophobia, and ocular pain. To restore the ocular surface in advanced stem cell deficient corneas, an autologous or allogenic limbal stem cell transplantation is performed. In recent years, the risk of secondary LSCD due to removal of large limbal grafts has been significantly reduced by the optimization of cultivated limbal epithelial transplantation (CLET). Despite the great successes of CLET, there still is room for improvement as overall success rate is 70% and visual acuity often remains suboptimal after successful transplantation. Simple limbal epithelial transplantation reports higher success rates but has not been performed in as many patients yet. This review focuses on limbal epithelial stem cells and the pathophysiology of LSCD. State-of-the-art therapeutic management of LSCD is described, and new and evolving techniques in ocular surface regeneration are being discussed, in particular, advantages and disadvantages of alternative cell scaffolds and cell sources for cell based ocular surface reconstruction.Background. Murphy's sign and Charcot's triad are established clinical findings of acute cholecystitis and cholangitis, respectively, but both show low sensitivity and limited clinical application. We evaluated if indirect fist percussion of the liver improves the efficiency of diagnosing cholecystitis and cholangitis when used as a diagnostic adjunct. Methods. The presence/absence of right upper quadrant (RUQ) tenderness, Murphy's sign, and pain induced by indirect fist percussion of the liver was assessed, and the results were compared with the definite diagnosis based on ultrasound and additional examinations in patients aged over 18 who visited our outpatient clinic with suspected hepatobiliary diseases. Results. Four hundred and eight patients were investigated, and 40 had hepatobiliary infection (acute cholecystitis: 10, acute cholangitis: 28, liver abscess: 1, and hepatic cyst infection: 1). The sensitivity of indirect fist percussion of the liver for diagnosing hepatobiliary infection was 60%, being significantly higher than that of RUQ tenderness (33%) and Murphy's sign (30%), and its specificity was 85%. There was no significant improvement in sensitivity or diagnostic accuracy when Murphy's sign was combined with indirect fist percussion of the liver. Conclusion. Indirect fist percussion-induced liver pain is a useful clinical finding to diagnose hepatobiliary infection, with high-level sensitivity.