The purpose of this study was to explore the role of visual and proprioceptive feedback in upper limb posture control in fibromyalgia (FM) and to assess the coherence between acceleration measurements of upper limb micro movements and surface electromyography (sEMG) of shoulder muscle activity (upper trapezius and deltoid).
Twenty-five female FM patients and 25 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs) performed three precision motor tasks: (1) maintain a steady shoulder abduction angle of 45° while receiving visual feedback about upper arm position and supporting external loads (0.5, 1, or 2kg), (2) maintain the same shoulder abduction angle without visual feedback (eyes closed) and no external loading, and (3) a joint position sense test (i.e., assessment of proprioceptive accuracy).
Patients had more extensive increase in movement variance than HCs when visual feedback was removed (P<0.03).
Proprioceptive accuracy was related to movement variance in HCs (R⩾0.59, P⩽0.002), but not in patients (R⩽0.25, P⩾0.24).
There was no difference between patients and HCs in coherence between sEMG and acceleration data.
These results may indicate that FM patients are more dependent on visual feedback and less reliant on proprioceptive information for upper limb posture control compared to HCs.PURPOSE: While previous research suggests that lubricant use may be common among lesbian- and bisexually-identified women, it remains unclear from this research whether lubricant was being used with a male or female partner.
The present study explores the behavioral, emotional, situational, and relational aspects of lesbian- and bisexually-identified women's lubricant use during their most recent female-partnered sexual event.
METHODS: Nationally representative data was collected as part of the 2012 National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior (NSSHB).
The 2012 NSSHB had an oversample of lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) individuals.
Participants were included in the present study if they identified as a lesbian or bisexual women and indicated that their most recent sexual partner was a female.
Participants were asked a variety of questions about the context and experience of lubricant use during this event.
RESULTS: Nearly a quarter (21.9%, n=32) of the participants reported that they used a lubricant during their most recent female-partnered sexual event.
The likelihood of lubricant use significantly differed based upon age, race/ethnicity and sexual identity.
The most commonly reported reason for lubricant use was to "make sex more comfortable," with half reporting use for clitoral stimulation (50.6%, n=16).
Overall, participants indicated that lubricant use enhanced their sexual experience.
CONCLUSION: Lubricant use may improve comfort and increase pleasure during certain sexual acts between women.
The use of lubrication should be considered as a means of reducing pain and enhancing sexual pleasure during sexual behavior between women.PURPOSE: To assess the health and well-being of sexual minority women (SMW) with disabilities.
METHODS: A survey assessing physical and mental health and quality of life was administered to a convenience sample of 52 women with disabilities and 74 without disabilities.
All had been recruited for an SMW's health intervention targeting women over 40 with potential for weight-related health problems.
RESULTS: Women with disabilities experienced more discrimination, had more posttraumatic stress disorder and anxiety disorders, were less connected to SMW's communities, had more physical health limitations, and reported poorer quality of life, mostly related to physical factors such as energy level and pain.
CONCLUSION: SMW with disabilities have rarely been studied, and may have significant challenges with health, including greater need for community support.
Studies are needed to further explore the influences on the health and well-being of SMW with disabilities.PURPOSE: To compare same-day pain control and safety of 2 different anesthetic gels utilizing 5% and 2% lidocaine gel.
Main outcome is to determine whether 5% lidocaine gel is more effective in decreasing pain during conjunctival clamping compared to 2% lidocaine gel 5 and 10 min after gel application.
METHODS: This is a prospective, randomized double-blind clinical trial.
Patients were randomized to receive 2% or 5% lidocaine gel in each eye.
Discomfort during the gel instillation and pain during conjunctival clamping 5 and 10 min after gel application were compared.
Extend of corneal conjunctival staining was graded according to the Oxford scale.
RESULTS: Eighty eyes of 40 patients were enrolled.
The groups were similar in gender, with a mean age of 48 ± 16.26 years.
The 5% lidocaine gel resulted in higher discomfort during initial instillation (P = 0.092), however, the pain during conjunctival clamping was lower in the 5% lidocaine gel eyes (P = 0.564) in both, 5 and 10 min later (P < 0.001).
The majority of patients (80%) had no corneal conjunctival dye staining.
The tear break-up time was not statistically different after lidocaine gel 2% (20.35 ± 7.37 s) and lidocaine 5% (19.75 ± 7.00 s).
CONCLUSION: Five percent and 2% lidocaine gel have similar efficacy controlling pain 5 min after instillation, however, 5% lidocaine gel appears to be more effective with a longer duration of action, without corneal toxicity.
There was no corneal toxicity noted with either concentration.BACKGROUND: House dust mite (HDM) immunotherapy has proven efficacy in treating allergic rhinitis (AR) symptoms.
This trial evaluated the dose-response relationship of SLIToneULTRA® HDM mix based on immunological parameters and safety in subjects with moderate-to-severe HDM AR not controlled by symptomatic medication.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A randomized, parallel-group, open-label, clinical trial compared 50/150/300 standard reactivity unit (SRU) doses of SLIToneULTRA® HDM mix for 6 months.
Subjects had moderate-to-severe HDM AR, positive skin prick and IgE against Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus/Dermatophagoides farinae (DP/DF).
The primary end point was change from baseline in the IgE-blocking factor against DP after 6 months.
Secondary end points measured changes in the IgE-blocking factor for DP at 3 months and for DF at 3 and 6 months, and in IgG4 and specific IgE to DP/DF after 3 and 6 months.
Tolerability was assessed through the evaluation of all adverse events (AEs).
RESULTS: A total of 219 subjects were randomized and 196 completed the trial.
Dose effect was significant on DP IgE-BF after 6 months (p = 0.018).
The change in the DP IgE-blocking factor at a 300-SRU dose was higher than at other doses after 3 (p = 0.008) and 6 (p = 0005) months of treatment.
Similar changes were observed for IgG4 and allergen-specific IgE.
The number of AEs increased with the dose and were mild-to-moderate, with no severe treatment-related AEs reported.
The most frequent AEs were oral/tongue pruritus, mouth oedema and abdominal upper pain.
CONCLUSIONS: Data showed a dose-response for immunological markers and safety with a better immunological response for 300 SRU.
The highest dose (300 SRU daily) was considered as the optimal maintenance dose.A 56-year-old man presented to the emergency department with a 5-hour history of throat swelling and pain and difficulty breathing that was exacerbated by supine positioning; he had not had any obvious antecedent trauma.
His medical history included prostate cancer, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, deep-vein thrombosis, and stroke.
Medications included warfarin (presumably for deep-vein thrombosis), antihypertensive agents, and a statin.
He was afebrile, and the physical examination was notable for minor swelling of the posterior oropharynx.
Laboratory studies revealed a normal white-cell count, an international normalized ratio of more than 11, a prothrombin time of more than 120 seconds, and an activated . . .A 38-year-old man presented with worsening abdominal pain, vomiting, anorexia, generalized weakness, and weight loss that had begun 3 days earlier.
He had a history of eating raw beef.
Examination of stool showed an embryonated egg containing an oncosphere.Background Effective and safe treatments are needed for patients who have irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with diarrhea.
We conducted two phase 3 trials to assess the efficacy and safety of eluxadoline, a new oral agent with mixed opioid effects (μ- and κ-opioid receptor agonist and δ-opioid receptor antagonist), in patients with IBS with diarrhea.
Methods We randomly assigned 2427 adults who had IBS with diarrhea to eluxadoline (at a dose of 75 mg or 100 mg) or placebo twice daily for 26 weeks (IBS-3002 trial) or 52 weeks (IBS-3001 trial).
The primary end point was the proportion of patients who had a composite response of decrease in abdominal pain and improvement in stool consistency on the same day for at least 50% of the days from weeks 1 through 12 and from weeks 1 through 26.
Results For weeks 1 through 12, more patients in the eluxadoline groups (75 mg and 100 mg) than in the placebo group reached the primary end point (IBS-3001 trial, 23.9% with the 75-mg dose and 25.1% with the 100-mg dose vs. 17.1% with placebo; P=0.01 and P=0.004, respectively; IBS-3002 trial, 28.9% and 29.6%, respectively, vs. 16.2%; P<0.001 for both comparisons).
For weeks 1 through 26, the corresponding rates in IBS-3001 were 23.4% and 29.3% versus 19.0% (P=0.11 and P<0.001, respectively), and the corresponding rates in IBS-3002 were 30.4% and 32.7% versus 20.2% (P=0.001 and P<0.001, respectively).
The most common adverse events associated with 75 mg of eluxadoline and 100 mg of eluxadoline, as compared with placebo, were nausea (8.1% and 7.5% vs. 5.1%), constipation (7.4% and 8.6% vs. 2.5%), and abdominal pain (5.8% and 7.2% vs. 4.1%).
Pancreatitis developed in 5 (2 in the 75-mg group and 3 in the 100-mg group) of the 1666 patients in the safety population (0.3%).
Conclusions Eluxadoline is a new therapeutic agent that reduced symptoms of IBS with diarrhea in men and women, with sustained efficacy over 6 months in patients who received the 100-mg dose twice daily.
(Funded by Furiex Pharmaceuticals, an affiliate of Allergan; IBS-3001 and IBS-3002 ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT01553591 and NCT01553747 , respectively.
).A retrospective study was conducted to review incidence, clinical practice, surgical management and histology of adolescent ovarian masses in order to audit and improve future practices.
Complete hospital records of all adolescents between 10 and 20 years who had undergone surgery for ovarian masses were analysed between November 2006 to 2014.
Parameters analysed were age, clinical features, diagnosis, operative procedure and histopathology.
Ninety-four patients were included in the study and among them, 37 had non-neoplastic masses, 30 had benign neoplasms while 27 had malignant tumors.
The main clinical presentations were abdominal pain (54%) and abdominal mass (41%).
Dermoid was the most common benign neoplasm while germ cell tumor was the most common malignant mass; dysgerminoma being the commonest (68%).
Malignancy was more common in early adolescence (12 ± 4.8 years) while non-neoplastic masses were seen more frequently in late adolescence (17.7 ± 2.2 years).
There was a fair correlation between ultrasound and histopathological diagnosis.BACKGROUND: Despite previous efforts to explain the general advantages of female fetuses over males regarding health, sex-related differences in the dynamics or complexity of fetal heart rate (FHR) variability and FHR maturation patterns have not yet been identified.
AIM: To make linear and nonlinear comparisons of antepartum FHR indices, dynamics, complexity, and reactivity to the non-stress test (NST) and vibroacoustic-stimulation test (VAST) in male and female fetuses.
STUDY DESIGN: A total of 3835 singleton term deliveries without maternal and fetal complications were divided into female (n=1849) and male (n=1986) groups, and subjected to comparison and analyses.
SUBJECTS: Linear FHR indices, approximate entropy (ApEn), sample entropy (SampEn), short-term/long-term exponents (α1/α2), correlation dimension (CD), NST and VAST criteria, and modified nonlinear reactive criteria (MNRC) were used to evaluate outcomes.
RESULTS: ApEn was consistently higher in female fetuses than in male ones.
ApEn in female fetuses was maximal at 29-30 gestational weeks, while the increase in ApEn was delayed in male fetuses but more rapid, reaching its peak at 31-32 gestational weeks.
In both sexes, CD increased up to term, and α2 rapidly decreased up to 31-32weeks in an analogous manner.
The two sexes differed significantly in response to VAST at <31 gestational weeks and there was a structural difference in reactive patterns under MNRC.
CONCLUSIONS: Female fetuses exhibit greater heart rate dynamics in early gestational periods, suggesting that their cardiovascular system matures earlier than that of males.
Male fetuses undergo a compensatory period of rapid change to catch up with females at term.OBJECTIVES: To clarify the pathophysiological factor underlying neural crosstalk among pelvic organs, we investigated the possible role of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the neural crosstalk between the testes and urinary bladder.
METHODS: Nerve growth factor (10, 30, and 100 µg/mL) or saline was injected into the testes of male Wistar rats.
The change in bladder capacity via cystometry and duration of spontaneous scratching behavior induced by NGF in conscious rats was measured.
The effects of pretreatment with capsaicin on NGF-induced changes in bladder capacity and behavior were examined.
Further, we evaluated the effect of analgesics, indomethacin and morphine, and pretreatment with compound 48/80 on NGF-induced scratching behavior to elucidate the mechanism of the behavior.
RESULTS: Injection of saline into the testes had no effect on bladder capacity or behavior.
However, an injection of NGF (30 and 100 µg/mL) reduced bladder capacity, which was regarded as bladder overactivity, and evoked scratching behavior in a dose-dependent manner.
Pretreatment with capsaicin inhibited NGF-induced bladder overactivity and scratching behavior.
Neither indomethacin nor pretreatment with compound 48/80 affected the scratching behavior, but morphine inhibited the behavior.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study provides evidence of a possible new role of NGF in the testes regarding the activation of testicular primary afferent neurons mediated by capsaicin-sensitive C-fibers, which evokes bladder overactivity via neural crosstalk between the testes and the urinary bladder as well as testicular pain.INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to quantify the effect of exercise-induced muscle damage on both the electrochemical and mechanical components of electromechanical delay using very high frame rate ultrasound.
METHODS: Fifteen participants underwent electrically-evoked contractions of the medial gastrocnemius muscle with an ultrasound transducer on the muscle belly and on the myotendinous junction, before, 1 hour, and 48 hours after eccentric exercise of the plantarflexor muscles.
RESULTS: Maximal isometric plantarflexor torque was significantly lower at 1 hour (-41.1±14.9%; P=0.0001) and 48 hours post-exercise (-11.9±14.9%; P=0.038) than pre-exercise values.
However, the delay between electrical stimulation and the onset of muscle activation, the delay between electrical stimulation and myotendinous junction motion, and the electromechanical delay were not altered significantly by eccentric exercise (P=0.063).
DISCUSSION: These findings suggest that moderate muscle damage does not affect the time for the electrochemical or mechanical components of electromechanical delay.
This article is protected by copyright.
All rights reserved.Attentional biases reflect an individual's selective attention to salient stimuli within their environment, for example an experience of back pain.
Eysenck suggests that different personality types show different attentional biases to threatening information.
This study is the first to test Eysenck's theory within a chronic back pain population by investigating the attentional biases of four different personality types using a back pain specific dot-probe paradigm.
Participants were 70 volunteers (45 female) recruited from a back rehabilitation program at an NHS Trust.
The four groups were selected on their trait anxiety and defensiveness scores: defensive high-anxious; high-anxious; repressor and non-extreme.
Participants completed a dot probe task comprising 20 practice trials and 250 experimental trials.
The experimental trials contained 100 threat-neutral pairs, 100 positive-neutral pairs and 50 neutral-neutral image pairings.
The threat images were taken from the Photograph Series of Daily Activities (PHODA) and the neutral and positive images from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS) image bank.
The results provided partial support for Eysenck's theory; defensive high-anxious individuals showed an attentional bias for threatening information compared to high-anxious individuals who demonstrated no bias.
Repressors showed an avoidant bias to threatening images and an attentional bias to positive stimuli relative to neutral images.
The clear difference in responses demonstrated by high-anxious individuals who vary in defensiveness highlight the need for separate investigation of these heterogeneous groups and help to explain the cognitive processes of defensive high-anxious individuals within a pain population.
The demonstration of an attentional bias in this group to threatening information could explain why defensive high-anxious individuals are more likely to re-present for treatment.PMID: 26789435  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]BACKGROUND: Pelvic congestion syndrome (PCS) is described as chronic pelvic pain (CPP) arising from dilated and refluxing pelvic veins, although the causal relationship between pelvic vein incompetence (PVI) and CPP is not established.
Non-invasive screening methods such as Doppler ultrasound and magnetic resonance venography are used before confirmation by venography.
Percutaneous embolisation has become the principal treatment for PCS, with high success rates often cited.
OBJECTIVES: Our proposal aimed to systematically and critically review the definitions and diagnostic criteria of PCS, the association between PVI and CPP, the accuracy of various non-invasive imaging techniques and the effectiveness of embolisation for PVI; and to identify factors associated with successful outcome.
We also wished to survey clinicians and patients to assess awareness and management of PCS and gauge the enthusiasm for further research.
DATA SOURCES: A comprehensive search strategy encompassing various terms for pelvic congestion, pain, imaging techniques and embolisation was deployed in 17 bibliographic databases, including MEDLINE, EMBASE and Web of Science.
There was no restriction on study design.
METHODS: Methodological quality was assessed using appropriate tools.
Online surveys were sent to clinicians and patients.
The quality and heterogeneity generally precluded meta-analysis and so results were tabulated and described narratively.
RESULTS: We identified six association studies, 10 studies involving ultrasound, two studies involving magnetic resonance venography, 21 case series and one poor-quality randomised trial of embolisation.
There were no consistent diagnostic criteria for PCS.
We found that the associations between CPP and PVI were generally fairly similar, with three of five studies with sufficient data showing statistically significant associations (odds ratios of between 31 and 117).
The prevalence of PVI ranged widely, although the majority of women with PVI had CPP.
Transvaginal ultrasound with Doppler and magnetic resonance venography are both useful screening methods, although the data on accuracy are limited.
Early substantial relief from pain symptoms was observed in approximately 75% of women undergoing embolisation, a figure which generally increased over time and was sustained.
Reintervention rates were generally low.
Transient pain was a common occurrence following foam embolisation, while there was a < 2% risk of coil migration.
Confidence in the embolisation technique is reasonably high, although there is a desire to strengthen the evidence base.
Even among women with CPP, fewer than half had any knowledge about PCS.
CONCLUSIONS: The data supporting the diagnosis and treatment of PCS are limited and of variable methodological quality.
There is some evidence to tentatively support a causative association, but it cannot be categorically stated that PVI is the cause of CPP in women with no other pathology, as the six most pertinent drew on clinically disparate populations and defined PVI inconsistently.
Embolisation appears to provide symptomatic relief in the majority of women and is safe.
However, the majority of included studies of embolism were relatively small case series and only the randomised controlled trial was considered at risk of potential biases.
There is scope and demand for considerable further research.
The question of the association of PVI and CPP requires a well-designed and well-powered case-control study, which will also provide data to derive a diagnostic standard.
An adequately powered randomised trial is essential to provide evidence on the effectiveness of embolisation, but this faces methodological challenges.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42012002237 and CRD42012002238.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.AIM: To report on a novel method to instrument a dilacerated double curved mandibular premolar SUMMARY: A 45-year-old female was referred suffering from diffuse pain emanating from the mandibular right quadrant.
The second premolar (tooth 45) was diagnosed with symptomatic irreversible pulpitis.
The radiographic examination revealed a dilacerated s-shaped root configuration, with 2 severe curvatures of less than 2 mm radius.
Under local anaesthesia and rubber dam isolation, a glide path was created until a size 10 K-file reached working length.
Instrumentation to larger size was achieved with a novel approach using controlled memory files.
The controlled memory files were precurved and passively inserted below the curvature until maximum frictional resistance.
The motor was activated by maintaining light apical pressure and the files were withdrawn from the canal.
This procedure was repeated until each file could reach the working length.
Chemical disinfection was achieved with positive syringe irrigation of 6% NaOCl, followed by 17% EDTA rinsing and manual dynamic gutta-percha activation of the irrigants.
Canal filling was achieved using the continuous wave of condensation technique and thermoplasticized injectable gutta-percha backfill.
The postoperative radiography revealed that the initial canal anatomy of the dilacerated double curved root canal was preserved.
This article is protected by copyright.
All rights reserved.OBJECTIVES: Ketoprofen is an analgesic, anti-inflammatory agent commonly used in the management of chronic musculoskeletal pain.
The aim of this study is to characterize the percutaneous absorption of 2 ketoprofen formulations (ketoprofen 10% in Pluronic Lecithin Organogel (PLO) and ketoprofen 10% in Lipoderm, referred to as Phospholipid Base), when applied to the human cadaver trunk skin, in vitro, using the Franz skin finite dose model.
PLO and Phospholipid Base are vehicles used to facilitate the delivery of drugs into and through the skin following topical applications.
METHODS: The percutaneous absorption of ketoprofen was evaluated using human cadaver trunk skin from 3 donors.
The skin was cut into small sections and cultured within Franz diffusion cells.
A variable finite dose of each formulation was then applied to 3 replicate skin sections per donor and receptor solutions were collected at predetermined time points (0, 4, 8, 12, 24, 32, and 48 hr).
After the last receptor sample was collected, skin surfaces were washed and split into epidermis and dermis.
Collected samples were analyzed using HPLC.
RESULTS: Both PLO and Phospholipid Base were capable of facilitating the absorption of ketoprofen across human cadaver trunk skin.
However, ketoprofen, when in Phospholipid Base, showed higher mean total absorption (p=0.022) and faster rate of absorption (p<0.05 at 2, 6, 10, and 18 hr) than when in PLO.
CONCLUSION: Chronic musculoskeletal pain can be a major burden for most patients, affecting their lifestyle and reducing overall quality of life.
When compared to PLO, Phospholipid Base has the ability to potentially deliver higher concentrations of ketoprofen to underlying soft tissues and at a more rapid rate.
With more ketoprofen at the site of injury, the analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects will likely be enhanced, potentially reducing pain and improving quality of life.AIM: During the last decades, therapies targeting cervical cancer have been considerably improved.
Surgery and radiotherapy (RT) represent the main common therapeutic approach in cervical cancer.
In order to minimize the side effects of radiotherapy approach, several protocols have been developed such as brachytherapy (BRT).
Among the side effects associated with RT, the vaginal atrophy is the most important and common one.
Vaginal atrophy, in turn, leads to additional alterations like inflammation, associated to relevant symptoms such as itching, burning and dyspareunia.
All these alterations heavily affect the quality of women's life.
The aim of our study was to evaluate the toxicity induced by RT on vaginal mucosa, and the adjuvant action of a product containing LMWHA, vitamin A, and Vitamin E (Santes®, Lo.Li.
Pharma, Rome, Italy).
The introduction of adjuvant therapies may have likely had a relevant place in providing that result.
METHODS: A prospective randomized study was designed.
From October 2006 to October 2008, 45 women with a mean age 38±6 years were enrolled.
After surgery, all patients were treated with 4 weeks of RT and 4 weeks of BRT, concomitantly with chemiotherapy.
They were randomly assigned in two groups: 23 women were treated with two suppositories (Santes®) per day for 4 months.
For the first two months the preventive treatment was simultaneous to RT and BRT.
Instead the control groups for composed by 22 patients and they did not undergo any treatment during RT.
To evaluate the efficacy of Santes® treatment three biopsies were performed.
RESULTS: At the second biopsy, after the BRT therapy, the treated group showed a statistically significant improvement (P<0.05 vs. control) on inflammation, cell atypia, fibrosis, mucositis and bleeding.
At the third biopsy, two months after BRT, further statistically improvement were observed for all RT/BRT associated side effects.
The treatment showed an efficacy also in terms of pain severity.
CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that low molecular weight HA shows good performances in treating RT-damaged tissue and plays a key role in all steps of the healing process.
Indeed the results shows that women exposed to RT treatments and simultaneously treated with Santes®, had an optimal resolution of vaginal atrophy and related symptoms.PMID: 26788862  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]BACKGROUND: An order protocol for distress (OPD), including respiratory distress and acute pain crisis, has been established for pediatric palliative care patients at Sainte-Justine Hospital (SJH).
After discussion with the patient/his or her family, the OPD is prescribed by the attending physician whenever judged appropriate.
The OPD can then be initiated by the bedside nurse when necessary; the physician is notified after the first dose is administered.
OBJECTIVES: The study objectives were to evaluate the perceptions and experience of the medical/nursing staff towards the use of the OPD.
METHODS: A survey was distributed to all physicians/nurses working on wards with pediatric palliative care patients.
Answers to the survey were anonymous, done on a voluntary basis, and after consent of the participant.
RESULTS: Surveys (258/548) were answered corresponding to a response rate of 47%.
According to the respondents, the most important motivations in using the OPD were the desire to relieve patient's distress and the speed of relief of distress by the OPD; the most important obstacles were going against the patient's/his or her family's wishes and fear of hastening death.
The respondents reported that the OPD was frequently (56%) or always (36%) effective in relieving the patient's distress.
The respondents felt sometimes (16%), frequently (34%), or always (41%) comfortable in giving the OPD.
They thought the OPD could never (12%), rarely (32%), sometimes (46%), frequently (8%), or always (1%) hasten death.
Physicians were less favorable than nurses with the autonomy of bedside nurses to initiate the OPD before notifying the physician (p = 0.04).
Overall, 95% of respondents considered that they would use the OPD in the future.
CONCLUSIONS: Data from this survey shows that respondents are in favor of using the OPD at SJH and find it effective.
Further training as well as support for health care professionals are mandatory in such palliative care settings.PMID: 26788763  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]Chronic pain is an important public health problem that negatively impacts quality of life of affected individuals and exacts enormous socio-economic costs.
Chronic pain is often accompanied by comorbid emotional disorders including anxiety, depression and possibly anhedonia.
The neural circuits underlying the intersection of pain and pleasure are not well understood.
We summarize recent human and animal investigations demonstrating that aversive aspects of pain are encoded in brain regions overlapping with areas processing reward and motivation.
We highlight findings revealing anatomical and functional alterations of reward/motivation circuits in chronic pain.
Finally, we review supporting evidence for the concept that pain relief is rewarding and activates brain reward/motivation circuits.
Adaptations in brain reward circuits may be fundamental to the pathology of chronic pain.
Knowledge of brain reward processing in the context of pain could lead to the development of new therapeutics for the treatment of emotional aspects of pain and comorbid conditions.
This article is protected by copyright.
All rights reserved.INTRODUCTION: Malignant tumors of the parotid gland account scarcely for 5% of all head and neck tumors.
Most of these neoplasms have a high tendency for recurrence, local infiltration, perineural extension, and metastasis.
Although uncommon, these malignant tumors require complex surgical treatment sometimes involving a total parotidectomy including a complete facial nerve resection.
Severe functional and aesthetic facial defects are the result of a complete sacrifice or injury to isolated branches becoming an uncomfortable distress for patients and a major challenge for reconstructive surgeons.
CASE REPORT: A case of a 54-year-old, systemically healthy male patient with a 4 month complaint of pain and swelling on the right side of the face is presented.
The patient reported a rapid increase in the size of the lesion over the past 2 months.
Imaging tests and histopathological analysis reported an adenoid cystic carcinoma.
A complete parotidectomy was carried out with an intraoperative notice of facial nerve infiltration requiring a second intervention for nerve and defect reconstruction.
A free ALT flap with vascularized nerve grafts was the surgical choice.
A 6 month follow-up showed partial facial movement recovery and the facial defect mended.
CONCLUSION: It is of critical importance to restore function to patients with facial nerve injury.
Vascularized nerve grafts, in many clinical and experimental studies, have shown to result in better nerve regeneration than conventional non-vascularized nerve grafts.
Nevertheless, there are factors that may affect the degree, speed and regeneration rate regarding the free fasciocutaneous flap.
In complex head and neck defects following a total parotidectomy, the extended free fasciocutaneous ALT (anterior-lateral thigh) flap with a vascularized nerve graft is ideally suited for the reconstruction of the injured site.
Donor-site morbidity is low and additional surgical time is minimal compared with the time of a single ALT flap transfer.INTRODUCTION: Tonsillectomy is the one of the most common types of surgery in children, and is often accompanied by post-operative pain and discomfort.
Methods of pain control such as use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), narcotics, and local anesthetics have been used, but each have their own particular side effects.
In this study we investigated the effect of ketamine on post-operative sedation and pain relief.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 50 children aged between 5 and 12 years who were candidates for tonsillectomy were divided into two groups.
The study group received ketamine-midazolam (ketamine 1 mg/kg, midazolam 0.1 mg/kg) and the control group received midazolam (0.1 mg/kg) in the pre-operative period.
The same methods of anesthesia induction and maintenance were used in all patients.
Pain score was assessed using the Wong-Baker Faces Pain Rating scale and sedation was evaluated using the Riker Sedation-Agitation scale at the time of extubation as well as 5, 10, 15, and 30 minutes and 1, 2, and 6 hours after surgery.
RESULTS: The two groups were similar in terms of age, weight, gender and duration of surgery.
Pain after 15 and 30 minutes and agitation after 10 and 15 minutes following extubation were lower in the study group (ketamine-midazolam).
Mean consumption and time of first request for analgesia after surgery as well as incidence of post-operative vomiting were similar in the two groups.
CONCLUSION: Adding ketamine to midazolam in pre-operative of tonsillectomy reduces agitation and post-operative pain in the first 30 minutes after surgery.INTRODUCTION: Controversy remains as to the advantages and disadvantages of pharyngeal packing during septorhinoplasty.
Our study investigated the effect of pharyngeal packing on postoperative nausea and vomiting and sore throat following this type of surgery or septorhinoplasty.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This clinical trial was performed on 90 American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) I or II patients who were candidates for septorhinoplasty.
They were randomly divided into two groups.
Patients in the study group had received pharyngeal packing while those in the control group had not.
The incidence of nausea and vomiting and sore throat based on the visual analog scale (VAS) was evaluated postoperatively in the recovery room as well as at 2, 6 and 24 hours.
RESULTS: The incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) was 12.3%, with no significant difference between the study and control groups.
Sore throat was reported in 50.5% of cases overall (56.8% on pack group and 44.4% on control).
Although the severity of pain was higher in the study group at all times, the incidence in the two groups did not differ significantly.
CONCLUSION: The use of pharyngeal packing has no effect in reducing the incidence of nausea and vomiting and sore throat after surgery.
Given that induced hypotension is used as the routine method of anesthesia in septorhinoplasty surgery, with a low incidence of hemorrhage and a high risk of unintended retention of pharyngeal packing, its routine use is not recommended for this procedure.INTRODUCTION: Deep neck space infections (DNSI) are serious diseases that involve several spaces in the neck.
The common primary sources of DNSI are dental infections, tonsillar and salivary gland infections, malignancies, and foreign bodies.
With widespread use of antibiotics, the prevalence of DNSI has been reduced.
Common complications of DNSI include airway obstruction, jugular vein thrombosis, and sepsis.
Treatment principally comprises airway management, antibiotic therapy, and surgical intervention.
This study was conducted to investigate the age and sex distribution of patients, symptoms, presentation, sites involved, bacteriology, and management and complications of DNSI.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective study was performed from October 2010 to January 2013, and included 76 patients with DNSI.
Patients of all age groups and gender were included.
All parameters including age, gender, co-morbidities, presentation, site, bacteriology, complications, and required interventions were studied.
RESULTS: In our study, the majority of patients were in the 31-50-year age group.
Males accounted for 55.26% of the sample and females for 44.74%, with a male:female ratio of 1.23.
Most of the patients were from a rural background.
Diabetes was found as a co-morbid condition in 10.52% cases.
Neck pain was the most common symptom, identified in 89.47% cases.
The most common etiological factor was odontogenic infection (34.21%), followed by tonsillar and pharyngeal infection (27.63%).
The most common presentation was Ludwig's angina (28.94%), followed by peritonsillar abscess and submandibular abscess.
In 50% of cases, Streptococcus and Staphylococcus were found in the culture.
Surgical intervention was carried out in 89.47% cases.
Emergency tracheotomy was required in 5.26% cases.
CONCLUSION: DNSI can be life-threatening in diabetic patients, the immunocompromised, and elderly patients, and special attention should therefore be given to these groups.
Early diagnosis and treatment is essential to prevent complications.
All patients must be treated initially with intravenous antibiotics, with treatment subsequently updated based on a culture and sensitivity report.
Due to poor oral hygiene, lack of nutrition, smoking and chewing of beetle nut and tobacco, odontogenic infections are the most common cause of DNSI.
Thus, DNSI could be prevented by making the population aware of dental and oral hygiene and offering regular check-ups for dental infections.AIM: To elucidate the clinical, radiological and laboratory proﬁles of renal abscess (RA) and perinephric abscess (PNA), along with related treatment and outcome.
METHODS: Ninety-eight patients diagnosed with RA or PNA using the primary discharge diagnoses identified from the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems Tenth Edition (ICD-10) codes (RA: N15.101, PNA: N15.102) between September 2004 and December 2014 in West China Hospital were selected.
Medical records including patients' characteristics, symptoms and signs, high-risk factors, radiological features, causative microorganisms and antibiotic-resistance proﬁles, treatment approaches, and clinical outcomes were collected and analyzed.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 46.49 years with a male to female ratio of 41:57.
Lumbar pain (76.5%) and fever (53.1%) were the most common symptoms.
Other symptoms and signs included chills (28.6%), anorexia and vomiting (25.5%), lethargy (10.2%), abdominal pain (11.2%), flank mass (12.2%), flank fistula (2.0%), gross hematuria (7.1%), frequency (14.3%), dysuria (9.2%), pyuria (5.1%) and weight loss (1.0%).
Painful percussion of the costovertebral angle (87.8%) was the most common physical finding.
The main predisposing factors were lithiasis (48.0%), diabetes mellitus (33.7%) followed by history of urological surgery (16.3%), urinary tract infections (14.3%), renal function impairment (13.3%), liver cirrhosis (2.0%), neurogenic bladder (1.0%), renal cyst (1.0%), hydronephrosis (1.0%), chronic hepatitis B (1.0%), post-discectomy (1.0%) and post-colectomy (1.0%).
Ultrasound (US) and computed tomography were the most valuable diagnostic tools and US was recommended as the initial diagnostic imaging choice.
Escherichia coli (51.4%), Staphylococcus aureus (10.0%) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (8.6%) were the main causative microorganisms.
Intravenous antibiotic therapy was necessary while intervention including surgical and nonsurgical approaches were reserved for larger abscesses, multiple abscesses, PNAs and non-responders.
CONCLUSION: Heightened alertness, prompt diagnosis, and especially proper antibiotics in conjunction with interventional approaches allow a promising clinical outcome of renal and perinephric abscesses.A 6-year-old girl presented with intermittent abdominal pain, without jaundice and a palpable mass in the epigastrium.
Preoperative imaging and upper endoscopy suggested duodenal duplication.
During surgery, the patient was diagnosed with a rare type of choledochal cyst-choledochocele (type 3b).
The authors emphasize that, in children, choledochocele should be included in the differential diagnosis of cystic lesions located in the duodenal area and the head of the pancreas area, regardless of jaundice or abnormal liver function.
Since mucosal histology showing duodenal mucosa did not match the final diagnosis, we suggest that three criteria should be met for the diagnosis of a choledochocele to be diagnosed: (1) a cyst protruding into the duodenal lumen; (2) filling with contrast during cholangiography and (3) a filling defect on X-ray barium meal.We are hereby reporting a case where the eggs and adults of the mold mites; Tyrophagus putrescentiae (Shrank) and the trophozoites of Blastocystis sp.
were found in stool of three years old child from Minia City, Egypt.
Intestinal mite infection was diagnosed after repeated identification of mite' stages from six consecutive stool samples to exclude the possibilities of contamination and spurious infection.
The patient was suffering from severe colicky abdominal pain and burning sensation around the anus one month ago.
All other members of his family were having the same acarine in their feces, but were all symptomless.
The patient was treated with ivermectin 200 µg/kg body weight once every 10 days for three doses.
His cure indicated that he was having asymptomatic blastocystosis.A 70-year-old man presented with lower back pain and cyanotic changes in his left lower extremity.
He was diagnosed with infected aortic aneurysm and infectious spondylitis.
He had received intravesical Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) therapy up to 1 month before the onset of symptoms.
The aneurysm was excised and an aorto-biiliac interposition graft was performed.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was cultured in the surgical specimens.
Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting the senX3-regX3 region, and multiplex PCR using dual-priming oligonucleotide primers targeting the RD1 gene, revealed that the organism isolated was Mycobacterium bovis BCG.
The patient took anti-tuberculosis medication for 1 year, and there was no evidence of recurrence at 18 months follow-up.BACKGROUND: The efficacy of antiretroviral therapy (ART) has improved, and the adverse effects of antiretroviral drugs have been reduced.
However, these adverse effects still significantly influence patient compliance, increasing the risk of tolerability failure.
Therefore, we investigated the adverse effects and tolerability failure causing changes in the first ART regimen, and identified the regimens that were most vulnerable to switching.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We enrolled patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) who commenced their first ART between January 1, 2011 and July 30, 2014.
Patients who started their first ART regimen at the Kyungpook National University Hospital were included in the study if they were aged ≥18 years and were followed-up for ≥12 weeks.
The primary dependent variable was the duration of treatment on the same ART regimen.
We analyzed the maintenance rate of the first ART regimen based on the treatment duration between these groups using survival analysis and log rank test.
The frequency of the adverse effects of ART regimens was analyzed by multiple response data analysis.
RESULTS: During the investigation period, 137 patients were enrolled.
Eighty-one patients were maintained on the initial treatment regimen (59.1%).
In protease inhibitor (PI)-based regimen group, 54 patients were maintained on the initial treatment regimen (54/98, 55.1%).
In non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-and integrase inhibitor (II)-based regimen group, 15 (15/26, 57.7%) and 12 (12/13, 92.3%) patients were maintained on the initial treatment regimen, respectively.
Adverse effects that induced ART switching included rash (16/35, 45.7%), gastrointestinal discomfort or pain (7/35, 20%), diarrhea (7/35, 20%), hyperbilirubinemia (6/35, 17.1%), headache or dizziness (3/35, 8.5%).
Among the treatment regimens, the group receiving an II-based regimen showed the least switching.
The group receiving PI-and NRTI-based regimens were most likely to switch due to adverse effects during the early treatment period.
However, after about 18 months, switching was rarely observed in these groups.
Among the PI drugs, darunavir/ritonavir showed fewer drug changes than atazanavir/ritonavir (P = 0.004, log rank test) and lopinavir/ritonavir (P = 0.010).
Among the NNRTI drugs, rilpivirne produced less switching than efavirenz (P = 0.045).
CONCLUSIONS: Adverse effects to ART resulted in about a quarter of patients switching drugs during the early treatment period.
II-based regimens were advantageous because they were less likely to induce switching within 18 months of treatment commencement.
These findings indicated the importance of considering and monitoring the adverse effects of ART in order to improve adherence.Inferior vena cava agenesis (IVCA) is a rare congenital anomaly that can be asymptomatic or present with vague, nonspecific symptoms, such as abdominal or lower back pain, or deep vein thrombosis (DVT).
Here, we present a 55-year-old male who came with painless swelling and redness of his left lower limb.
On examination, swelling and redness were noted extending from the left foot to the upper thigh; it was also warm compared to his right lower limb.
Venous Doppler ultrasound was done which showed DVT extending up to the common femoral vein.
Subsequently, computed-tomography (CT) of the chest and abdomen was done to exclude malignancy or venous flow obstruction; it revealed congenital absence (agenesis) of the infrarenal inferior vena cava (IVC).Teratomas are unusual tumours that derived from totipotent cells with their origin from more than one or usually all three germ cells.
Here authors are presenting a case of primary retroperitoneal tumour that is a rare clinical entity.
A 19-year-old male presented with right lumbar pain and was found to have complex cyst with large calcification in right adrenal gland on imaging.
Intraoperatively, he was found to have a solid mass with areas of soft consistency, which was excised en bloc.
On gross examination, the cyst contained pieces of bone, few teeth, and hairs entangled in mucinous material.
On histological evaluation, it was confirmed to be mature teratoma arising from the right adrenal gland.
He made uneventful recovery and was kept well on annual follow-up.Subcutaneous emphysema is a known complication of carbon dioxide insufflation, an essential component of laparoscopy.
The literature contains reports of hypercarbia, pneumothorax, or pneumomediastinum.
However, isolated lower extremity subcutaneous emphysema remains a seldom-reported complication.
We report a case of unilateral lower extremity subcutaneous emphysema following robotic-assisted hysterectomy, bilateral salpingooophorectomy, staging, and anterior/posterior colporrhaphy for carcinosarcoma and vaginal prolapse.
On postoperative day 1, the patient developed tender crepitus and bruising of her right ankle.
Radiography confirmed presence of subcutaneous air.
Vital signs and laboratory findings were unremarkable.
Her symptoms spontaneously improved over time, and she was discharged in good condition on day 2.
In stable patients with postoperative extremity swelling or pain with crepitus on exam, the diagnosis of iatrogenic subcutaneous emphysema must be considered.Ovarian vein thrombosis (OVT) is an extremely rare but life-threatening complication of the postpartum period.
It has never been reported as a complication of laparoscopic surgery.
We report a case of right ovarian vein thrombosis that occurred in the postoperative period after patient underwent laparoscopic salpingectomy for a right side ectopic pregnancy.
She presented with 1-week history of abdominal pain and fever.
A complete workup for fever was performed and was found negative.
Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis revealed right ovarian vein thrombosis.
The patient was treated with anticoagulant therapy and responded well.We describe an unusual case of hairy cell leukemia (HCL) in a 55-year-old male presenting with isolated skeletal disease as the initial manifestation without abnormal peripheral blood counts, bone marrow involvement, or splenomegaly.
To the best of our knowledge, there have been only two previous reports of a similar case.
The patient presented with pain in the right femur.
Anteroposterior radiographs of both femurs revealed mixed lytic-sclerotic lesions.
PET scan showed multiple metastatic lesions on axial skeleton, pelvis, and both femurs.
Histopathological examination of the bone biopsy revealed an infiltrate of HCL.
Localized radiation therapy to both proximal femurs and subsequently 4 weeks later, a 7-day course of 0.1 mg/kg/day cladribine provided complete remission with relief of symptoms and resolution of bone lesions.
We addressed the manifestations and management of HCL patients with skeletal involvement.Purpose.
In knee osteoarthritis, the degree of pain varies despite similar imaging findings.
If there were quantitative findings related to the pain of knee osteoarthritis, it could be used for diagnosis or screening.
The medial meniscal extrusion was investigated as a candidate quantitative finding related to the pain of knee osteoarthritis.
Methods.
Seventy-six knees of 38 patients (mean age, 73 years) who received intra-articular injections of hyaluronic acid into unilateral knees at the time of diagnosis of knee arthritis were investigated.
Cartilage thickness of the femoral medial condyle and medial meniscal extrusion of bilateral knees were measured by ultrasonography.
Thirty-eight knees that had hyaluronic acid injections were compared with 38 other side knees from the same patients as the control group.
Results.
The average cartilage thicknesses of the knees with pain that received intra-articular injections and the knees without pain that received no injections were 1.02 and 1.05 mm, respectively (P = 0.6394).
On the other hand, the average medial meniscal extrusions of the knees with and without pain were 7.58 and 5.88 mm, respectively (P = 0.0005); pain was associated with greater medial meniscal extrusions.
Conclusion.
Medial meniscal extrusion is a quantitative finding related to the pain of knee osteoarthritis.Manual therapy has long been a component of physical rehabilitation programs, especially to treat those in pain.
The mechanisms of manual therapy, however, are not fully understood, and it has been suggested that its pain modulatory effects are of neurophysiological origin and may be mediated by the descending modulatory circuit.
Therefore, the purpose of this review is to examine the neurophysiological response to different types of manual therapy, in order to better understand the neurophysiological mechanisms behind each therapy's analgesic effects.
It is concluded that different forms of manual therapy elicit analgesic effects via different mechanisms, and nearly all therapies appear to be at least partially mediated by descending modulation.
Additionally, future avenues of mechanistic research pertaining to manual therapy are discussed.The motor imagery (MI) has been proposed as a treatment in the complex regional pain syndrome type 1 (CRPS-1), since it seems to promote a brain reorganization effect on sensory-motor areas of pain perception.
The aim of this paper is to investigate, through an integrative critical review, the influence of MI on the CRPS-1, correlating their evidence to clinical practice.
Research in PEDro, Medline, Bireme and Google Scholar databases was conducted.
Nine randomized controlled trials (level 2), 1 non-controlled clinical study (level 3), 1 case study (level 4), 1 systematic review (level 1), 2 review articles and 1 comment (level 5) were found.
We can conclude that MI has shown effect in reducing pain and functionality that remains after 6 months of treatment.
However, the difference between the MI strategies for CRPS-1 is unknown as well as the intensity of mental stress influences the painful response or effect of MI or other peripheral neuropathies.The current study reports the case of a 61-year-old man with diabetes who was suffering from generalized pain over the whole body and gradually progressive numbness.
The patient was initially diagnosed with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and received treatment, however, the symptoms persisted.
In October 2010, the patient was admitted to the Chinese People's Liberation Army Navy General Hospital (Beijing, China) for the treatment of diabetes, however, a full-body sharp pain was also described, which was relieved upon massaging the area.
Causes, other than diabetes, were investigated for these symptoms.
Chest computed tomography and positron emission tomography-computed tomography scans revealed a mass shadow in the right lower lobe of the lung, with multiple lymphatic metastases.
Lung cancer was diagnosed with a tumor-node-metastasis stage of T1N3Mx.
Following treatment of the cancer with chemotherapy and radiotherapy, the patient's symptoms were significantly improved.
The present study reports a rare case of a paraneoplastic neurological syndrome (PNS) that presented as painful neuropathy resulting from lung cancer, which mimicked diabetic peripheral neuropathy.Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT) is a rare type of mesenchymal tumor, which may affect various organs.
The preferential site for IMT in the genitourinary system is the urinary bladder, while the presence of IMT in the kidney, and particularly in the renal pelvis, is rare.
In the present report, the case of a 43-year-old man who was admitted to the Department of Urology of The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University (Changsha, China) in July 2012, with complaints of iterative gross hematuria and abdominal pain unresponsive to antibiotics is described.
Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging indicated a slightly enhanced mass in the left renal pelvis of 1.5 cm in diameter.
On request of the patient, a left nephrectomy was then performed, based on a suspected diagnosis of renal pelvic carcinoma.
However, analysis of the intraoperative fast-frozen section exhibited proliferation of compact spindle cells, suggesting IMT.
Therefore, further ureterectomy was avoided, and the patient remained in healthy condition thereafter.There is a low incidence of multiple primary cancer, particularly when the cancer is synchronous.
The present report presents a case of synchronous double primary malignancies.
A 58-year-old woman was admitted to Ling Nan Hospital (Guangzhou, China) complaining of pain in the left hip.
X-ray revealed an osteolytic lesion and further examination indicated the presence of double primary cancer, consisting of hepatic cholangiocarcinoma and thyroid carcinoma.
Biopsy of the osteolytic lesion showed a metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknown origin.
Subsequently, final diagnosis was confirmed by I-131 scan and liver lesion biopsy.
The patient received positive multidisciplinary treatments and survived for 9 months following diagnosis.
The results of the present case suggest that multiplicity of primary malignancy is not necessarily an indicator of poor prognosis, as long as effective diagnosis and adequate disease management are achieved.As an uncommon subtype of meningioma, chordoid meningioma (CM) of the spinal canal is extremely rare.
There have been only two reported cases of intraspinal CM in the literature, and this lesion has not been previously reported in the pediatric age group.
To the best of our knowledge, the present study reports the first case of spinal chordoid meningioma in a pediatric patient.
A 12-year-old female presented with a 3-month history of progressive numbness and weakness in the right-side limbs, and intermittent pain in the neck and right shoulder.
Spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed an intraspinal lesion at the C2-3 level with irregularly heterogeneous enhancement.
The patient underwent a C2-3 laminotomy.
Due to adhesion to the dura and proximity to the vertebral artery, the tumor was partially removed intraoperatively.
The post-operative course was uneventful and the symptoms were apparently relieved.
The patient experienced recurrence 5 years subsequent to surgery.
MRI revealed an extradural regrown tumor at the C2-5 level.
Partial removal combined with radiotherapy was performed.
However, the patient experienced progression of tetraplegia and succumbed to severe pneumonia and respiratory failure 5 months subsequent to the second surgery.
In the present study, the clinicoradiological findings and treatment outcome of this rare entity are discussed, in addition to a review of the relevant literature.
Spinal CMs should be included in the differential diagnosis of intraspinal tumors of the pediatric spine.
Multidisciplinary treatment, consisting of total surgical removal and adjuvant radiotherapy, should be considered due to the aggressive nature of this abnormality and the risk of long-term recurrence.Synovial sarcoma (SS) is a soft-tissue tumor with a unique t(X;18)(p11.2;q11.2) chromosomal translocation that can be identified by polymerase chain reaction in tissue homogenates.
Generally, the tumor occurs in the proximity of the joints.
The current study presents the case of a 54-year-old female with primary SS (PSS) of the right kidney; this is an extremely rare tumor accounting for <2% of malignant renal carcinomas.
The patient presented with an interrupted right flank pain of 20 years duration, with a precipitating factor of a hematuria of 8 days.
Abdominal computerized tomography (CT) scan revealed a heterogeneous, unclear-marginated soft tissue arising in the upper pole of the right kidney with solid, necrotic components and heterogeneous enhancement.
Renal cell carcinoma was diagnosed pre-operatively.
A right nephrectomy was performed, and the patient is currently free of metastasis 12 months after the surgery.
The current treatment for renal SS includes surgical resection and ifosfamide-based chemotherapy.
To the best of our knowledge, <50 cases have been reported in the English literature.
Urologists should be aware of the possibility of malignancy in cystic renal masses and consider a diagnosis of SS.
Along with the case report, the current study presents a literature review on the diagnosis and treatment of PSS.Reconstruction following periacetabular tumor resection of the pelvis is one of the most challenging issues in limb salvage surgery.
An ideal procedure has still not been established.
There are several reconstruction methods available, including arthrodesis, pseudoarthrosis, resection arthroplasty, prosthetic arthroplasty, saddle prosthesis, allograft and hip transposition.
In our hospital, we have been using a flail hip joint procedure without reconstruction.
Herein, we report good extremity function following a flail hip joint procedure which used the upper surface of the femoral neck as a saddle facing the remaining ilium.
To the best of our knowledge, among the reported flail hip joint cases, this procedure has never been used.
The patient is able to walk without any pain for several hundred meters with a shoe lift but without a cane, as observed at a 20-year follow-up.
The authors consider that the flail hip joint using the upper surface of the femoral neck as a saddle is a simple and effective method.Clinical reports of kidney metastases derived from an invasive mole (IM) are rare.
The present study presents the case of a 42-year-old woman who exhibited IM and bilateral kidneys metastases in what may be, to the best of our knowledge, the first report of such a case.
Following an induced abortion, the patient initially experienced irregular vaginal bleeding and subsequently presented with left-sided waist and abdominal pain.
The patient was admitted to hospital and was clinically diagnosed with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN), as well as bilateral kidney metastases and a spontaneous rupture of the left kidney.
This diagnosis was based on the patient's medical history, which comprised increased levels of human chorionic gonadotropin β and aberrant results on computed tomography (CT) scans.
The patient subsequently received conservative management to prevent renal damage, and a standard etoposide, methotrexate, actinomycin D, cyclophosphamide and vincristine chemotherapy regimen for GTN was administered.
Following eight cycles of chemotherapy, a follow-up CT examination indicated that the damage in the patient's left kidney could not be corrected with conservative treatments, therefore the left kidney was excised and a laparoscopic hysterectomy was performed.
The pathological results were consistent with the clinical diagnosis and allowed further classification of the primary tumor as an IM.
The present case demonstrated that it is possible for IM to metastasize to the kidney, and furthermore, that this type of metastatic tumor may be fragile and possess the potential to cause spontaneous kidney rupture.Severe ocular surface disease can result in limbal stem cell deficiency (LSCD), a condition leading to decreased visual acuity, photophobia, and ocular pain.
To restore the ocular surface in advanced stem cell deficient corneas, an autologous or allogenic limbal stem cell transplantation is performed.
In recent years, the risk of secondary LSCD due to removal of large limbal grafts has been significantly reduced by the optimization of cultivated limbal epithelial transplantation (CLET).
Despite the great successes of CLET, there still is room for improvement as overall success rate is 70% and visual acuity often remains suboptimal after successful transplantation.
Simple limbal epithelial transplantation reports higher success rates but has not been performed in as many patients yet.
This review focuses on limbal epithelial stem cells and the pathophysiology of LSCD.
State-of-the-art therapeutic management of LSCD is described, and new and evolving techniques in ocular surface regeneration are being discussed, in particular, advantages and disadvantages of alternative cell scaffolds and cell sources for cell based ocular surface reconstruction.Background.
Murphy's sign and Charcot's triad are established clinical findings of acute cholecystitis and cholangitis, respectively, but both show low sensitivity and limited clinical application.
We evaluated if indirect fist percussion of the liver improves the efficiency of diagnosing cholecystitis and cholangitis when used as a diagnostic adjunct.
Methods.
The presence/absence of right upper quadrant (RUQ) tenderness, Murphy's sign, and pain induced by indirect fist percussion of the liver was assessed, and the results were compared with the definite diagnosis based on ultrasound and additional examinations in patients aged over 18 who visited our outpatient clinic with suspected hepatobiliary diseases.
Results.
Four hundred and eight patients were investigated, and 40 had hepatobiliary infection (acute cholecystitis: 10, acute cholangitis: 28, liver abscess: 1, and hepatic cyst infection: 1).
The sensitivity of indirect fist percussion of the liver for diagnosing hepatobiliary infection was 60%, being significantly higher than that of RUQ tenderness (33%) and Murphy's sign (30%), and its specificity was 85%.
There was no significant improvement in sensitivity or diagnostic accuracy when Murphy's sign was combined with indirect fist percussion of the liver.
Conclusion.
Indirect fist percussion-induced liver pain is a useful clinical finding to diagnose hepatobiliary infection, with high-level sensitivity.Objectives.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of Tadalafil and Tamsulosin in treating Double J stent related symptoms.
Methods.
In a prospective study, 161 patients with DJ related symptoms were randomized into 3 groups: Group A patients (54), Group B patients (53), and Group C patients (54).
They were given Tadalafil, Tamsulosin, and placebo, respectively, at 1st week till removal of DJ stent at 3rd week.
All patients completed Ureteral Stent Symptom Questionnaire (USSQ) at 1st week and at 3rd week.
The statistical significant difference among groups was determined by the t-test, Kruskal-Wallis test and multivariate analysis were used to assess association of the variables within the three groups, and the level of significance was set at P < 0.05.
Results.
Tadalafil and Tamsulosin were comparable in relieving urinary symptoms, general health, and work performance (OR = 0.65, 1.8, and 0.92).
But Tadalafil was more effective in relieving body pain, sexual problems, and additional problems than Tamsulosin (OR = 5.95, 19.25, and 2.69) and was statistically significant as P < 0.05.
Conclusion.
Tadalafil was as effective as Tamsulosin in relieving urinary symptom but more effective in relieving sexual symptoms and body pain.BACKGROUND: Frailty is a new prognostic factor in cardiovascular medicine due to the aging and increasingly complex nature of elderly patients.
It is useful and meaningful to prospectively analyze the manner in which frailty predicts short-term outcomes for elderly patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS).
METHODS: Patients aged ≥ 65 years, with diagnosis of ACS from cardiology department and geriatrics department were included from single-center.
Clinical data including geriatrics syndromes were collected using Comprehensive Geriatrics Assessment.
Frailty was defined according to the Clinical Frailty Scale and the impact of the co-morbidities on risk was quantified by the coronary artery disease (CAD)-specific index.
Patients were followed up by clinical visit or telephone consultation and the median follow-up time is 120 days.
Following-up items included all-cause mortality, unscheduled return visit, in-hospital and recurrent major adverse cardiovascular events.
Multivariable regression survival analysis was performed using Cox regression.
RESULTS: Of the 352 patients, 152 (43.18%) were considered frail according to the study instrument (5-7 on the scale), and 93 (26.42%) were considered moderately or severely frail (6-7 on the scale).
Geriatrics syndromes including incontinence, fall history, visual impairment, hearing impairment, constipation, chronic pain, sleeping disorder, dental problems, anxiety or depression, and delirium were more frequently in frail patients than in non-frail patients (P = 0.000, 0.031, 0.009, 0.014, 0.000, 0.003, 0.022, 0.000, 0.074, and 0.432, respectively).
Adjusted for sex, age, severity of coronary artery diseases (left main coronary artery lesion or not) and co-morbidities (CAD specific index) by Cox survival analysis, frailty was found to be strongly and independently associated with risk for the primary composite outcomes: all-cause mortality [Hazard Ratio (HR) = 5.393; 95% CI: 1.477-19.692, P = 0.011] and unscheduled return visit (HR = 2.832; 95% CI: 1.140-7.037, P = 0.025).
CONCLUSIONS: Comprehensive Geriatrics Assessment and Clinical Frail Scale were useful in evaluation of elderly patients with ACS.
Frailty was strongly and independently associated with short-term outcomes for elderly patients with ACS.There is ample evidence that dementia changes the processing of pain.
However, it is not known whether this change in pain processing is related to the general decline in cognitive functioning or whether it may be related to specific domains of cognitive functioning.
With the present study we tried to answer this question.
We assessed different cognitive domains (orientation, memory, abstract thinking/executive function, aphasia and apraxia, and information processing speed) in 70 older patients with cognitive impairment (mild cognitive impairment up to moderate degrees of dementia).
Pain responsiveness was assessed by measuring the nociceptive flexion reflex (NFR) threshold and facial responses to noxious electrical stimulation.
Using regression analyses, we assessed which domain of cognitive functioning best predicted variance in pain responsiveness.
Variance in pain responsiveness (NFR and facial expressions) was best explained by those items assessing executive functioning even when controlling for overall cognitive performance and memory functioning.
The close association between executive functioning and pain responsiveness suggests that dementia-related neurodegeneration in prefrontal areas might result not only in reduced executive functioning but also in a loss of pain inhibitory potency, rendering the patient more vulnerable to pain.
Our findings also suggest that pain assessment in dementia should be regularly completed by tests of cognitive functions.BACKGROUND: The oesophageal leak pressure is defined as the pressure which breaks the seal between the cuff of a supraglottic airway and the peri-cuff mucosa, allowing penetration of fluid into the pharynx and the oral cavity.
As a consequence, a decrease in this variable increases the risk of reflux and can lead to pulmonary aspiration.
The aim of this study was to analyse the effects of cuff overinflation and pressure on the neck on the oesophageal leak pressure of seven supraglottic airways.
METHODS: Three laryngeal masks, two laryngeal tubes, and two oesophageal-tracheal tubes were tested in an experimental setting.
In five human cadavers, we simulated a sudden increase in oesophageal pressure.
To measure baseline values (control), we used an intracuff pressure as recommended by the manufacturer.
The first intervention included overinflation of the cuff by applying twice the amount of pressure recommended.
A second intervention was defined as external pressure on the neck.
RESULTS: The oesophageal leak pressure was decreased for laryngeal masks (control, 28 cm H2O; overinflation, 9 cm H2O; pressure on the neck, 8 cm H2O; P<0.01) and for laryngeal tubes (control, 68 cm H2O; overinflation, 37 cm H2O; pressure on the neck, 39 cm H2O; P<0.01) and was unaffected for oesophageal-tracheal tubes (control, 126 cm H2O; overinflation/pressure on the neck, 130 cm H2O; n.s.).
CONCLUSION: Cuff overinflation and pressure on the neck can enhance the risk of gastro-oesophageal reflux when using supraglottic airways.
Therefore, both manoeuvres should be avoided in clinical practice.BACKGROUND: It is well known that thermal softening of polyvinyl chloride tracheal tubes reduces nasal damage during nasotracheal intubation.
We hypothesized that thermal softening of double-lumen endobronchial tubes (DLTs) may be effective for reducing airway injury.
This randomized double-blind study was performed to investigate whether thermal softening of DLTs decreased postoperative sore throat, hoarseness or vocal cord injuries.
METHODS: Patients (n=140) undergoing one lung anaesthesia were randomized into two groups (n=70 each) depending on whether the DLT was softened by warming or not before tracheal intubation.
The DLTs were placed in warm saline [40(1)°C] in the thermal softening group or in room temperature saline in the control group for 10 min.
The vocal cords were examined by using flexible laryngoscopy immediately after extubation.
Sore throat and hoarseness were evaluated for three postoperative days.
The primary outcomes were the incidence of sore throat, hoarseness, and vocal cord injuries.
RESULTS: Sore throat and vocal cord injuries occurred less frequently in the thermal softening group than in the control group [14/70 vs 27/70, risk ratio (95% CI): 0.52 (0.30-0.90), P=0.025 for sore throat; 15/70 vs 27/70, risk ratio (95% CI): 0.56 (0.32-0.95), P=0.042 for vocal cord injuries].
However, the incidence of hoarseness was comparable between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: Tracheal intubation with DLTs softened by warming decreased the postoperative incidence of sore throat and vocal cord injuries.
Therefore, thermal softening of DLTs before intubation seems to be helpful in reducing airway injuries associated with DLT intubation.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT 01626365.BACKGROUND: The aim was to evaluate the analgesic efficacy and safety of the dexketoprofen/tramadol 25 mg/75 mg fixed-dose combination vs dexketoprofen (25 mg) and tramadol (100 mg) in moderate-to-severe acute pain after total hip arthroplasty.
METHODS: This was a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study in patients experiencing pain of at least moderate intensity on the day after surgery, compared with placebo at first administration to validate the pain model.
The study drug was administered orally every 8 h throughout a 5 day period.
Rescue medication, metamizole 500 mg, was available during the treatment period.
The evaluation of efficacy was based on patient assessments of pain intensity and pain relief.
The primary end point was the mean sum of the pain intensity difference values throughout the first 8 h (SPID8).
RESULTS: Overall, 641 patients, mean age 62 (range 29-80) yr, were analysed; mean (sd) values of SPID8 were 247 (157) for dexketoprofen/tramadol, 209 (155) for dexketoprofen, 205 (146) for tramadol, and 151 (159) for placebo.
The primary analysis confirmed the superiority of the combination over dexketoprofen 25 mg (P=0.019; 95% confidence interval 6.4-73) and tramadol 100 mg (P=0.012; 95% confidence interval 9.5-76).
The single components were superior to placebo (P<0.05), confirming model sensitivity.
Most secondary analyses supported the superiority of the combination.
The incidence of adverse drug reactions was low and similar among active treatment groups.
CONCLUSION: The efficacy results confirmed the superiority of dexketoprofen/tramadol over its single components, even at higher doses (tramadol), with a safety profile fully in line with that previously known for these agents in monotherapy.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: EudraCT 2012-004548-31 (https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=eudract_number:201 2-004548-31);ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01902134 (https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01902134?term=NCT01902134&rank=1).BACKGROUND: Axillary vein catheterization via a distal approach is an alternative to the proximal approach to axillary/subclavian vein catheterization under ultrasound (US) guidance.
The aim of this trial was to compare the two approaches.
METHODS: In a randomized single-centre study, all patients requiring central vein catheterization in intensive care or the operating room were randomly assigned to proximal or distal approach groups.
If catheterization failed after two attempts using the approach allocated, the non-allocated approach was used.
The primary endpoint was the initial success rate of distal to compared with the proximal approach, using a non-inferiority analysis (lower limit 90% CI greater than -8% non-inferiority margin for group difference).
The secondary endpoints were: overall success rates, catheter position and complications.
RESULTS: 119/122 included patients were analysed (57 and 62 in the proximal and distal axillary approach groups, respectively).
Primary success rates for proximal and distal sites were 87.7 and 85.5%, respectively (difference -2.2%, 90% CI [-12.5-8.1%], non-inferiority P=0.18).
The proximal and distal overall success rates were 96.5 and 98.4%, respectively (difference -1.9%, 90% CI [-4.9-8.7%], non-inferiority P<0.01).
Thrombogenic catheter positions were 7 (12.3%) in proximal approach group vs 19 (31.7%) in the distal approach group (P=0.01).
Complications were comparable in the two groups (2 (3.3%) vs 4 (6.5%), P=0.68).
CONCLUSION: In terms of absolute and overall success rates, a distal approach is not non-inferior to a proximal approach.
Although associated with a more thrombogenic catheter extremity position, the distal approach can be considered as a rescue alternative after failure of a proximal approach.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01543360.Cervical epidural analgesia (CEA) is an analgesic technique, potentially useful for surgeries involving the upper body.
Despite the inherent technical risks and systemic changes, it has been used for various surgeries.
There have been no previously published systematic reviews aimed at assessing its clinical utility.
This systematic review was performed to explore the perioperative benefits of CEA.
The review was also aimed at identifying the rationale of its use, reported surgical indications and the method of use.
We performed a literature search involving PubMed and Embase databases, to identify studies using CEA for surgical indications.
Out of 467 potentially relevant articles, 73 articles were selected.
Two independent investigators extracted data involving 5 randomized controlled trials, 17 observational comparative trials, and 51 case reports (series).
The outcomes studied in most comparative studies were on effects of local anaesthetics and other agents, systemic effects, and feasibility of CEA.
In one randomized controlled study, CEA was observed to decrease the resting pain scores after pharyngo-laryngeal surgeries.
In a retrospective study, CEA was shown to decrease the cancer recurrence after pharyngeal-hypopharyngeal surgeries.
The limited evidence, small studies, and the chosen outcomes do not allow for any specific recommendations based on the relative benefit or harm of CEA.
Considering the potential for significant harm, in the face of better alternatives, its use must have a strong rationale mostly supported by unique patient and surgical demands.
Future studies must aim to assess analgesic comparator effectiveness for clinically relevant outcomes.BACKGROUND: This systematic review evaluated the evidence comparing patient-important outcomes in spinal or epidural vs general anaesthesia for total hip and total knee arthroplasty.
METHODS: MEDLINE, Ovid EMBASE, EBSCO CINAHL, Thomson Reuters Web of Science, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials from inception until March 2015 were searched.
Eligible randomized controlled trials or prospective comparative studies investigating mortality, major morbidity, and patient-experience outcomes directly comparing neuraxial (spinal or epidural) with general anaesthesia for total hip arthroplasty, total knee arthroplasty, or both were included.
Independent reviewers working in duplicate extracted study characteristics, validity, and outcomes data.
Meta-analysis was conducted using the random-effects model.
RESULTS: We included 29 studies involving 10 488 patients.
Compared with general anaesthesia, neuraxial anaesthesia significantly reduced length of stay (weighted mean difference -0.40 days; 95% confidence interval -0.76 to -0.03; P=0.03; I2 73%; 12 studies).
No statistically significant differences were found between neuraxial and general anaesthesia for mortality, surgical duration, surgical site or chest infections, nerve palsies, postoperative nausea and vomiting, or thromboembolic disease when antithrombotic prophylaxis was used.
Subgroup analyses failed to find statistically significant interactions (P>0.05) based on risk of bias, type of surgery, or type of neuraxial anaesthesia.
CONCLUSION: Neuraxial anaesthesia for total hip or total knee arthroplasty, or both appears equally effective without increased morbidity when compared with general anaesthesia.
There is limited quantitative evidence to suggest that neuraxial anaesthesia is associated with improved perioperative outcomes.
Future investigations should compare intermediate and long-term outcome differences to better inform anaesthesiologists, surgeons, and patients on importance of anaesthetic selection.PMID: 26787786  [PubMed - in process]PMID: 26787785  [PubMed - in process]PMID: 26787783  [PubMed - in process]BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Nephrolithiasis is a prevalent condition that affects 10%-15% of adults in their lifetime.
It is associated with high morbidity due to colicky pain, the necessity for surgical intervention, and sometimes progression to CKD.
In recent years, multiple monogenic causes of nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis have been identified.
However, the prevalence of each monogenic gene in a pediatric renal stone cohort has not yet been extensively studied.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: To determine the percentage of cases that can be explained molecularly by mutations in one of 30 known nephrolithiasis/nephrocalcinosis genes, we conducted a high-throughput exon sequencing analysis in an international cohort of 143 individuals <18 years of age, with nephrolithiasis (n=123) or isolated nephrocalcinosis (n=20).
Over 7 months, all eligible individuals at three renal stone clinics in the United States and Europe were approached for study participation.
RESULTS: We detected likely causative mutations in 14 of 30 analyzed genes, leading to a molecular diagnosis in 16.8% (24 of 143) of affected individuals; 12 of the 27 detected mutations were not previously described as disease causing (44.4%).
We observed that in our cohort all individuals with infantile manifestation of nephrolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis had causative mutations in recessive rather than dominant monogenic genes.
In individuals who manifested later in life, causative mutations in dominant genes were more frequent.
CONCLUSIONS: We present the first exclusively pediatric cohort examined for monogenic causes of nephrolithiasis/nephrocalcinosis, and suggest that important therapeutic and preventative measures may result from mutational analysis in individuals with early manifestation of nephrolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis.Chronic pain is a multi-faceted and complex condition.
Broadly classified into somatic, visceral or neuropathic pain, it is poorly managed despite its prevalence.
Current drugs used for the treatment of chronic pain are limited by tolerance with long-term use, abuse potential, and multiple adverse side effects.
The persistent nature of pain suggests that epigenetic machinery may be a critical factor driving chronic pain.
In this review we discuss the latest insights into epigenetic processes, including DNA methylation, histone modifications and miRNAs, and describe their involvement in the pathophysiology of chronic pain and whether epigenetic modifications could be applied as future therapeutic targets for chronic pain.
We provide evidence from experimental models and translational research in human tissue that have enhanced our understanding of epigenetic processes mediating nociception and then speculate on the potential future use of more specific and selective agents that target epigenetic mechanisms to attenuate pain.This study examines the effects of electroacupuncture treatment on health-related quality of life and heart rate variability in women with fibromyalgia.
Twenty women with fibromyalgia received a 10-week treatment with electroacupuncture.
Primary outcome measures were the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire, the Short Form 36 Health Survey Questionnaire, and heart rate variability.
Compared with pretreatment, there was a significant improvement in health-related quality of life; electroacupuncture significantly increases low frequency, low frequency/high frequency, and decreases high frequency, all indicating rise in sympathetic tone.
Fibromyalgia patients showed a significant (P < .05) improvement in pain, fatigue, morning tiredness, stiffness, anxiety, and depression on the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire scores; and physical function, physical role, body pain, general health, and vitality scores on the Short Form 36 Health Survey Questionnaire.
These changes mainly in mental status scores could be related to a new autonomic balance with sympathetic predominance at the horary of the study.AIM: Oral medication is of paramount importance for pain treatment.
Analgesics, antiulcer (AUDs) and antithrombotic drugs (ATDs) are often coprescribed in elderly people.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) require AUDs to lower the risk of peptic ulcer, and potentially interfere with ATDs.
The aim of this study was to quantify the prevalence of NSAID use in patients with gastrointestinal, cardiac or kidney damage in the year 2013, compared to the general population.
METHODS: We performed a population-based case-control study in the Republic of San Marino to evaluate the Odds-Ratios for upper gastrointestinal damage (gastroduodenal ulcers and/or erosions, GUE), ischemic heart disease (IHD), heart failure (HF), and renal function impairment (assessed using the CKD-EPI formula), in people who had taken AUDs, ATDs, or NSAIDs in the previous 90 days, versus people who had not taken such drugs in the same period of time.
RESULTS: We found that AUDs decreased the OR for GUE (OR: 0.762; CI:0.598-0.972), while ATDs and NSAIDs increased the risk (OR: 1.238 and CI: 0.935-1.683; OR:1.203 and CI:0.909-1.592, respectively).
NSAIDs seemed to increase the risk of IHD, although this was not statistically significant (OR=1.464; CI=0.592-3.621).
AUDs and ATDs significantly increased the risk of renal function impairment (OR=1.369 and CI=1.187-1.579; OR=1.818 and CI=1.578-2.095, respectively), while this effect was not observed for NSAIDs.
CONCLUSION: NSAIDs may induce gastrointestinal and cardiovascular damage, not only by themselves, but also when used concomitantly with common medications such as AUDs or ATDs, due to additive and/or synergistic effects.
We performed a "pragmatic" analysis of the association of organ damage with use of NSAIDs/AUDs/ATDs, including patient age, treatment duration and dose, to allow for an immediate application of our findings to everyday clinical practice.AIM: To investigate the incidence of major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) after discharge from the emergency department (ED) with unspecified chest pain and the predictive value of cardiovascular risk factors included in HEART score.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This was a register-based retrospective cohort study including all patients discharged with the diagnosis 'unspecified chest pain' from Swedish EDs between 2006-2013.
Diagnosis and drug prescriptions were collected from national registers and the association to the occurrence of MACE was studied with logistic regression and category-free net reclassification improvement (cNRI).
Out of 74,329 included patients 619 (0.8%) experienced MACE within 30 days of discharge from the ED.
Hypertension (odds ratio (OR) 4.74, 95% confidence interval (CI) 4.02-5.59), diabetes mellitus (3.76, 3.10-4.57), hyperlipidaemia (1.92, 1.51-2.44), and earlier cardiovascular disease (CVD) were all associated with MACE.
The addition of hypertension to a risk factor model improved net reclassification (cNRI 53%, 95% CI 29-67%).
The variables age (A) (1 point OR 7.01, 95% CI 4.79-10.26, 2 points OR 23.57, 95% CI 16.35-33.97) and risk factors (R) (1 point OR 3.76, 95% CI 3.05-4.63, 2 points OR 10.94, 95% CI 8.96-13.38) in HEART score were both independently associated with MACE with a combination area under the curve (AUC) of 0.8.
CONCLUSIONS: MACE after discharge with unspecified chest pain is uncommon and associated with a diagnosis of hypertension and other cardiovascular risk factors.
Our findings support the use of risk factors in HEART score.
The relation between age and MACE was not linear and our data indicates that the lower cut-off value for age in HEART score should be adjusted downwards.AIM: Novel minimally invasive techniques aimed to reposition the haemorrhoidal zone have been established for prolapsing haemorrhoids.
We present a prospective randomised controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of additional Doppler-guided ligation of submucosal haemorrhoidal arteries in patients with symptomatic grade III haemorrhoids.
The trial was registered as ClinicalTrials.
gov Identifier: NCT02372981.
METHOD: All consecutive patients with symptomatic grade III haemorrhoids were randomly allocated to one of the two study arms: (Group A) DG-HAL with mucopexy or (Group B) mucopexy alone.
End points were postoperative pain, faecal incontinence, bleeding, residual prolapse and alterations of vascularisation of the anorectal vascular plexus.
Vascularisation of the anorectal vascular plexus was assessed by transperineal contrast enhanced ultrasound.
Patients recorded their symptoms in a diary maintained for a month.
RESULTS: Forty patients were recruited and randomised to the two study groups.
Patients in Group A had less pain in the first two postoperative weeks.
At the 12-month follow-up, two patients in Group A (10%) and one in Group B (5%) showed recurrent grade III haemorrhoids (p=0.274).
No significant morphological changes were observed in the transperineal ultrasound findings between the preoperative assessment and the assessment at 1 and 6-months in either group (p>0.05).
CONCLUSION: Mucopexy techniques for treating prolapsing haemorrhoids are effective, but Doppler-guided HAL does not add significantly to the results achieved by mucopexy Repositioning the haemorrhoidal zone is the key to success, and mucopexy should be placed at the sites of the largest visible prolapse.
This article is protected by copyright.
All rights reserved.AIMS: To investigate whether stability or change in body mass index (BMI) predict disability pension (DP) due to musculoskeletal diagnosis (MSD) when controlling for familial confounding.
METHODS: Our study cohort consisted of 17,169 Finnish twins born before 1958.
Data on BMI and multiple covariates from questionnaires in 1975 and 1981 were included and DPs were collected from the national pension registers until the end of 2004.
Cox proportional hazards regression models with Hazard Ratios (HR) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI) were used for statistical analyses.
RESULTS: General DP was granted to 2853 individuals and DP due to MSD to 1143 individuals during the 23-year follow-up.
A one-unit increase in BMI in both 1975 (HR 1.08, 95% CI 1.05, 1.10) and 1981 (HR 1.06, 95% CI 1.04, 1.07), as well as the stability of and change in BMI from 1975 to 1981 were all associated with an increased risk of DP.
These associations held in the analyses controlling for multiple covariates (age, sex, socioeconomic status, education, marital status, leisure-time physical activity, and musculoskeletal pain), and mainly also familial confounding, that is, genetics and shared environment.
HR for stable obesity was 2.28 (95% CI 1.69, 3.08) for DP due to MSD, and 1.91 (95% CI 1.56, 2.34) for general DP in the fully adjusted models.
CONCLUSIONS: BMI is an early predictor of general DP and also of DP due to MSD.
Owing to the independency of various covariates and potentially also familial confounding, BMI may possibly have a direct effect on the risk of DP.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Carpal fusions are useful for treating specific carpal disorders, maximizing postoperative wrist motion, hand strength, reducing pain and instability of the joint.
The surgeon selects the appropriate treatment by considering the degree of stability, the chronicity of the injury, functional demands of the patient and former patient's outcomes as well.
However there are not many studies regarding the load distribution provided by the treatment.
So, the purpose of this study is to analyze the load distribution through the wrist joint with an arthrodesis treatment and compare the results with a normal wrist.
METHOD: To this end the rigid body spring model (RBSM) method was used on a three-dimensional model of the wrist joint.
The cartilage and ligaments were simulated as springs acting under compression and tension, respectively, while the bones were considered as rigid bodies.
To simulate the arthrodesis, the fused bones were considered as a single rigid body.
RESULTS: The changes on the load distribution for each arthrodesis agree with the treatment objective, reducing load transmission through a specific articular surface.
For example, for SLAC/SNAC II most of the treatments reduced the load transmitted through the radioscaphoid fossae, almost by 8%.
However, the capitolunate (CL) arthrodesis was the treatment that managed to keep the load transmitted through the radiolunate joint closer to normal conditions.
Also, in treatments where the scaphoid was excised (3-corner, 4-corner and capitolunate arthrodesis), the joint surface between the lunate surface compensates by doubling the transmitted force to the radius.
CONCLUSIONS: The common arthrodesis for treating SLAC/SNAC II-III, reduces, in fact, the load on the radioscaphoid joint.
Alternative treatments that reduce load distribution on the radiocarpal joint should be three corner and capitolunate arthrodesis for treating SLAC/SNAC-II; and for SLAC/SNAC-III four corners with scaphoid excision.
On Kienbock's disease.
Scaphocapitate (SC) arthrodesis is more effective on reducing the load transmission through the radiolunate and ulnolunate joints.
All arthrodesis treatment should consider changes on the load transmission, and also bones' fusion rates and pain reduction on patient's outcomes.BACKGROUND: It is well recognised that low back pain is a significant public health problem and engagement in moderate levels of physical activity is associated with positive outcomes.
Conservative active care, such as exercise, is effective in reducing pain and disability associated with chronic low back pain.
However, a rapid decline in clinical outcomes is commonly seen after discharge from treatment.
METHODS/DESIGN: We will conduct a randomised controlled trial to investigate the effectiveness of a mobile health supported physical activity intervention (compared to standard care) in care-seeking, pain and disability in people with chronic low back pain after discharge from treatment.
We will recruit 68 patients with chronic low back pain following discharge from an outpatient hospital program, who will be randomly allocated to the physical activity intervention (n = 34) or the standard care group (n = 34) and monitored for 6 months.
The physical activity intervention will involve a physical activity advice booklet, a face-to-face health coaching session and 12 fortnightly follow-up telephone-based health coaching sessions.
This intervention will be supported by provision of a specifically designed web app and a physical activity monitoring device (FitBit).
The standard care group will receive the physical activity advice booklet only.
DISCUSSION: This pilot trial will investigate a new model to prevent clinical decline in people following conservative treatment for chronic low back pain.
If proven to be effective, this approach will constitute a major advance in the management of low back pain.
Chronic patients who experience recurrent pain and disability after treatment are prone to seek additional care in the form of physiotherapy, medication, emergency department attendance, specialist consultation or spinal surgery.
This model aims to maintain functional levels and reduce care-seeking empowering patients to self-manage their low back pain by offering them a contemporary patient-centred physical activity program with the support of mobile health technology.
The outcomes of this trial will have immediate implications for clinical practice.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ACTRN12615000189527 (26-02-2015).Inflammation of the colon in patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) causes pain and altered motility, at least in part through the damage of the myenteric neurons (MNs).
Thus, it is important to evaluate new drugs for UC treatment that could also protect myenteric neurons efficiently.
As a well-known neural protective and anti-inflammatory agent, melatonin could protect neurons from damage through the activation of the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 and antioxidant responsive element (Nrf2-ARE) signaling pathway.
Therefore, we investigated the potential protective effect of melatonin against MN damage during colitis induced by 2,4-dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS) in rats.
Colitis was induced by intracolonic (i.c.)
instillation of DNBS, and treated with melatonin at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg for four days.
The damage of MN in the left colon was immunohistochemically evaluated in different groups.
Ulcerations and inflammation in the colon were semiquantitatively observed.
Myeloperoxidase (MPO), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were detected to evaluate the inflammatory and oxidative stress status.
The protein and mRNA expression of Nrf2 and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in the colon were detected by Western blot and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) respectively.
Melatonin partially prevented the loss of MN and alleviated the inflammation and oxidative stress induced by DNBS.
In addition, melatonin markedly increased the Nrf2 and HO-1 level in the colitis.
These results indicate that melatonin protects MN from damage by reducing inflammation and oxidative stress, effects that are partly mediated by the Nrf2-ARE pathway.
This article is protected by copyright.
All rights reserved.PURPOSE: To evaluate the outcome of contralateral lower trapezius origin transfer (CLTOT) to restore shoulder external rotation in patients with shoulder paralysis after brachial plexus injury (BPI).
METHODS: We evaluated 12 patients with a history of BPI with persistent shoulder paralysis.
All patients had compromised ipsilateral lower trapezius muscle function.
All patients underwent CLTOT prolonged with lumbar fascia to the affected infraspinatus tendon either isolated (7 patients) or as part of multiple tendon transfer (5 patients).
Standardized patient outcomes measures were obtained.
RESULTS: At 23 months' follow-up, 10 patients had improved shoulder external rotation from no motion preoperatively to an average external rotation 110° from the abdomen.
Five patients had marked improvement of pain, including 2 with isolated CLTOT and 3 with additional tendon transfers.
Two patients experienced no change in pain.
There were noted improvements in the Constant shoulder scores, simple shoulder value, and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand scores.
One patient sustained a fall resulting in stretch injury to the transfer, underwent successful revision surgery, and regained 100° active shoulder external rotation away from the abdomen more than a year after revision surgery.
Another patient's transfer failed during rehabilitation but the patient elected not to pursue treatment.
No patients had changes in contralateral shoulder motion or strength or any pain from the contralateral shoulder.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that CLTOT to the infraspinatus tendon was effective in improving shoulder external rotation in patients with BPI.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic IV.Background/Aims: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) for the treatment of symptomatic pancreas divisum (PD) and to discuss whether ERCP procedures and outcomes in younger patients differ from those of adults.
Methods: Symptomatic patients with PD were included in the study and divided into underaged (age ≤17 years) and adult (age ≥18 years) group.
The clinical information of each patient was reviewed, and then the patients were contacted by telephone or their medical records were reviewed to determine their long-term followup outcomes.
Results: A total of 141 procedures were performed in 82 patients (17 underaged and 65 adult patients).
The ERCP indications included abdominal pain (39.02%), pancreatitis (12.20%), recurrent pancreatitis (36.59%), and other discomfort (12.20%).
The endoscopic interventions included endoscopic pancreatic sphincterotomy in 44.68% of the patients, bouginage in 26.95%, pancreatic ductal stone extraction in 19.15%, endoscopic nasopancreatic drainage in 21.99%, and endoscopic retrograde pancreatic drainage in 56.74%.
After a median follow-up of 41 months, the overall response rate was 62.32%.
Between the underaged group and the adult group, significant differences were not observed in the ERCP procedures, complications and longterm follow-up results.
Conclusions: ERCP is a safe and effective treatment for symptomatic PD.
Based on the details, complications, and follow-up results, the ERCP procedure did not present differences between the underaged and adult groups.PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the possibility of using the zygomatic buttress as an intraoral bone harvesting donor site and determine the safety of this harvesting procedure for later optimal positioning of dental implants in accordance with prosthodontic and functional principles.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A consecutive retrospective study was conducted on patients who had been treated at the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery of Ulm military and academic hospital, over a 3-year period (January 2008 to December 2010).
Medical history, smoking status, area of surgery, and complications were recorded.
The need for bone grafting was defined by the impossibility of installing implants of adequate length or diameter to fulfill prosthetic requirements, or for esthetic reasons.
The patients were treated using a 2-stage technique.
During the first operation, bone blocks harvested from the zygomatic buttress region were placed as lateral onlay grafts and fixed with titanium osteosynthesis screws after exposure of the deficient alveolar ridge.
After 3-6 months of healing, the flap was reopened, the screws removed and the implants placed.
RESULTS: A total of 113 zygomatic buttress bone block grafts in 112 patients were performed.
Graft loss and graft removal were defined as failure; swelling, wound dehiscence, infection with pus, temporary paresthesia, and perforations of the maxillary sinus membrane were defined as complications.
According to our criteria, 4 (3.5%) of the patients presented postoperative complications of the donor site and 20 (17.8%) of the recipient site.
Throughout, 93 (82.3%) of the bone grafts were successful and 20 (17.6%) had complications, regardless of the final success of the implant procedure.
Smoking was associated with a high rate of complications and graft failure.
Early graft exposure appeared to compromise the results, whereas pain and swelling were comparable to usual dentoalveolar procedures.
However, in 1.7% of all cases, concerning 2 patients, the final rehabilitation with dental implants was not possible.
CONCLUSIONS: The zygomatic buttress block bone graft is a safe intraoral donor site for the reconstruction of small- to medium-sized alveolar defects, providing the greatest surgical access with minimal postoperative complications.INTRODUCTION: Pelvic fixation via iliac screws is a crucial technique in stabilizing metastatic lumbosacral deformity.
MIS iliac screw fixation avoids complications of an open approach and is a viable palliative option in treating patients with painful instability and advanced disease, unsuited for major reconstruction.
In this paper we describe the use of MIS iliac screw fixation in treatment of painful metastatic LSJ deformity, highlighting our treatment rationale, selection criteria, technical experience and outcomes.
METHODS: Five patients with lumbosacral metastatic deformity who underwent MIS lumbopelvic stabilization using iliac screws were prospectively studied.
Patients had severe axial back pain in erect posture with significant resolution when supine.
All patients had advanced disease with unfavorable tumor scores for major spinal reconstruction.
RESULTS: Mean cohort age was 62 years.
Median pre-op SIN and Tokuhashi scores were 13 and 9, respectively.
All patients were instrumented successfully without conversion to open technique.
Mean preoperative and postoperative Cobb angle was 11° and 5.4°, respectively.
There were no neurological deficits or wound complications postop.
Postoperative CT scans showed no iliac screw and sacroiliac joint bony violation.
Mean time for commencement of adjuvant therapy was 2.8 weeks.
Average follow-up was 13.2 months.
No screw breakage, wound complication, symptomatic implant prominence and SI joint pain were noted at last follow-up.
CONCLUSION: MIS iliac screw fixation is feasible, reproducible and can be employed without complications in metastatic spine.
This opens a new avenue of surgical management for metastatic lumbosacral disease patients, who otherwise may be inoperable and provide better soft tissue control and earlier postoperative adjuvant treatment opportunity.PURPOSE: To assess the efficacy of continuous epidural infusion analgesia (ED) with 0.2 % Ropivacaine versus IV PCA (Fentanyl) in spinal fusion surgery patients.
METHOD: A prospective randomized comparative clinical trial.
Patients were randomized into one of two groups-the epidural group (ED-51 patients) and the IV PCA group (IV-43 patients).
The epidural catheter tip was placed one level cephalad to the level of the PLIF in patients in the ED group.
Patients were assessed by determining the pain score, cumulative opioid requirement, adverse effects, and satisfaction.
RESULTS: Pain score comparisons between the ED group and the IV group, respectively, were as follows: immediate postoperative status: 2.1 ± 1.5 vs. 7.2 ± 2.1, p = 0.01; postoperative day 1: 2.3 ± 1.9 vs. 6.8 ± 2.3, p = 0.02; postoperative day 2: 1.9 ± 1.8 vs. 5.4 ± 2.1, p = 0.02; postoperative day 3: 1.5 ± 1.6 vs. 3.9 ± 1.9, p = 0.03; postoperative day 4: 3.8 ± 2.1 vs. 3.1 ± 1.9, p = 0.4.
Lower levels of opioids were required in the ED group, and fewer opioid-related complications developed in the patients in this group.
Complications related to the use of epidural catheters were comparable between the two groups.
Patient satisfaction with postoperative pain control was higher in the ED group.
CONCLUSION: In comparison with the use of IV PCA only, continuous epidural infusion of Ropivacaine resulted in lower pain scores and opioid consumption and higher patient satisfaction levels after posterior lumbar interbody fusion.PMID: 26787332  [PubMed - in process]BACKGROUND: General practitioners (GPs) play an important role in end-of-life care due to their proximity to the patient's dwelling-place and their contact to relatives and other care providers.
METHODS: In order to get a better understanding of the role which the GP sees him- or herself as playing in end-of-life care and which care their dying patients get, we conducted this written survey.
It asked questions about the most recently deceased patient of each physician.
The questionnaire was sent to 1,201 GPs in southern North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany) and the Canton of Bern (Switzerland).
RESULTS: Response rate was 27.5 % (n = 330).
The average age of responding physicians was 54.5 years (range: 34-76; standard derivation: 7.4), 68 % of them were male and 45 % worked alone in their practice.
Primary outcome measures of this observational study are the characteristics of recently deceased patients as well as their care and the involvement of other professional caregivers.
Almost half of the most recently deceased patients had cancer.
Only 3 to 16 % of all deceased suffered from severe levels of pain, nausea, dyspnea or emesis.
More than 80 % of the doctors considered themselves to be an indispensable part of their patient's end-of-life care.
Almost 90 % of the doctors were in contact with the patient's family and 50 % with the responsible nursing service.
The majority of the GPs had taken over the coordination of care and cooperation with other attending physicians.
CONCLUSION: The study confirms the relevance of caring for dying patients in GPs work and provides an important insight into their perception of their own role.INTRODUCTION: Internal herniation (IH) probably is the most elusive complication of laparoscopic Roux- en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) surgery.
This study provides a definition for IH, a diagnosing algorithm, and information on several factors influencing IH formation.
METHOD: Baseline characteristics, laboratory findings, imaging studies, operative findings, and follow up data of 1583 patients that underwent LRYGB at our bariatric facility between 2007 and 2013 were recorded.
Follow up varied between 3 and 76 months, and 85 % of the data was available for analysis at 12 months.
Our surgical technique was standardized.
Intermesenteric spaces were not closed until July 2012, where after they were closed.
To facilitate comparison, IH cases were matched with controls.
RESULTS: Forty patients (2.5 %) had an IH during re-laparoscopy.
The modal clinical presentation is acute onset epigastric discomfort, often crampy/colicky in nature.
Additional examinations included laboratory testing, abdominal X-ray, abdominal ultrasound, and abdominal CT scanning.
Patients who developed an IH lost a significantly higher percentage of their total body weight than their matched controls at every time point.
IH incidence was higher in the non-closure group than the closure group.
CONCLUSION: The large variation in reported IH incidence is due to the large variation in IH definition.
To gain more uniformity in reporting IH prevalence, we propose the use of the AMSTERDAM classification.
Post-LRYGB patients with acute onset crampy/colicky epigastric pain should undergo abdominal ultrasound to rule out gallbladder pathology and offered re-laparoscopy with a low threshold.
IH incidence is highest among patients with rapid weight loss and non-closure of intermesenteric defects.BACKGROUND: Trauma-related mortality can be lowered by efficient prehospital care.
Less is known about whether gender influences the prehospital trauma care provided.
The aim of this study was to explore gender-related differences in prehospital trauma care of severely injured trauma patients, with a special focus on triage, transportation, and interventions.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective observational study based on local trauma registries and hospital and ambulance records in Stockholm County, Sweden.
A total of 383 trauma patients (279 males and 104 females) > 15 years of age with an Injury Severity Score (ISS) of > 15 transported to emergency care hospitals in the Stockholm area were included.
RESULTS: Male patients had a 2.75 higher odds ratio (95 % CI, 1.2-6.2) for receiving the highest prehospital priority compared to females on controlling for injury mechanism and vital signs on scene.
No significant difference between genders was detected regarding other aspects of the prehospital care provided.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicated that prehospital prioritization among severely injured late adolescent and adult trauma patients differs between genders.
Knowledge of a more diffuse presentation of symptoms in female trauma patients despite severe injury may help to adapt and improve prehospital trauma care for this group.PURPOSE OF STUDY Fractures of the distal radius and distal ulna require anatomical reconstruction for good restoration of wrist and hand function.
In this study we compared the results of conservative treatment with those of plate osteosynthesis management in distal ulna fractures of patients who had concomitant fractures of the distal radius indicated for plate osteosynthesis.
Our objective was to specify indications for plate osteosynthesis of a distal ulna fracture in the case of an associated distal radius fracture.
MATERIAL AND METHODS A total of 27 patients were evaluated.
In 17 of them, distal radius fractures were treated by plate osteosynthesis and distal ulna fractures conservatively (CONS group).
In 12 patients, both distal radius and distal ulna fractures were treated by plate osteosynthesis (SURG group).
Osteosynthesis was carried out using an APTUS variable-angle locking system (Medartis, Basel, Switzerland).
In two SURG group patients with distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ) instability, the radius and ulna in anatomical position were secured with two Kirschner wires.
RESULTS Fracture union of the distal radius was achieved in all patients.
Non-union of the distal ulna was recorded in one patient of each group.
No secondary displacement of distal radius fragments during bone union was found in either group.
Displacement of fragments during the healing of distal ulna fracture occurred in one (6.7%) patient of the CONS group.
Out of the parameters evaluated, the restriction of motion below 80% of the original range in volar flexion, dorsal flection and supination was recorded in three CONS patients (20.0%) and two SURG patients (16.7%).
No DRUJ instability was found.
Intra-operative swelling preventing closure of surgical wounds was managed by secondary wound suture in one SURG patient (8.3%).
There were no other complications.
DISCUSSION Views vary on whether the distal ulna should be treated by plate osteosynthesis when, after distal radius fixation, its fracture managed by closed reduction heals well.
A distal ulna plate often causes pain and has to be removed.
The acute cases of DRUJ instability caused by comminuted distal ulna fracture can be treated by osteosynthesis of the distal ulna and two Kirschner wires inserted into the fracture site in an ulnar-to-radial direction.
For chronic radioulnar instability, various methods involving free tendon grafts and dynamic tenodesis are used.
Other options include the Sauvé-Kapandji procedure based on inducing artificial non-union of the distal ulna diaphysis and radioulnar arthrodesis; in our modification of this technique we use a single cancellous malleolar screw.
In severely comminuted fractures of the distal ulna with injury to articular cartilage, ulnar head replacement can be indicated.
CONCLUSIONS Distal ulna fractures can be treated conservatively if osteosynthesis of the distal radius in the anatomical position is achieved together with anatomical reduction of bone fragments of the distal ulna.
When a distal radius fracture managed by osteosynthesis is not accompanied by anatomical reduction of distal ulna fragments, or the ulna is shorter or longer than the contralateral bone, an open reduction and stabilisation using an angle-stable locking plate, set at an adequate radius-toulna length ratio, is the method of choice.KEY WORDS: fracture, radius, ulna, plate osteosynthesis.PURPOSE OF THE STUDY The aim of the study was to measure the sensorimotor brain adaptation activity, shown on functional magnetic resonance images (fMRI), in relation to the degree and extent of spinal cord compression or cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) detected by cervical spine MRI.
MATERIAL AND METHODS Twenty-one patients (average age, 57 years; 9 men and 12 women) with anterior cervical cord compression detected on cervical MRI scans were included.
On the images, the degree of spinal canal stenosis, the spinal cord compression based on the antero-posterior diameter of the spinal canal and on transverse areas of the cervical spinal cord and cervical spinal canal, and changes in spinal cord signal intensity were identified.
Clinical examination included neurological status, Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score, Neck Disability Index (NDI) and pain intensity assessment using the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS).
Electrophysiological tests involving motor evoked and sensory evoked potential (MEP and SEP) recording were conducted and, using fMRI, brain activity during movement of both arms was measured.
Based on the transverse spinal cord area of above or below 70 mm2, the patients were placed into two subgroups.
According to changes in spinal cord signal intensity, the patients were included into three subgroups with normal findings, incipient myelopathy and advanced myelopathy, respectively.
Surgery was carried out from the anterior approach and involved cervical disc replacement.
All examinations were performed again at 6 months after surgery.
Pre- and post-operative results were compared within each set of subgroups and statistically evaluated.
RESULTS The average pre-operative values were found to increase post-operatively as follows: from 6.4 mm to 8.9 mm (by 39%) for the antero-posterior diameter of the spinal canal; from 129.3 mm2 to 162.8 mm2 (by 26%) for the transverse area of the spinal canal; from 72.6 mm2 to 87.4 mm2 (by 20%) for the transverse spinal cord area; and from 16.3 to 17.4 for the JOA score.
The average NDI decreased from 37.9 to 23.7 and the average VAS fell from 6.4 to 1.5.
All patients with the change of spinal cord signal that indicated advanced myelopathy also had relevant pathological findings on MEP/SEP examination and this was statistically significant.
There was no significant difference in fMRI scans between the two subgroups established on the basis of transverse spinal cord area measurements.
In the patients grouped by a change in spinal cord signals, the pre-operative fMRI showed a significantly higher brain activation volume in the subgroup with advanced myelopathy, as compared with the two other subgroups.
Surgery resulted in a moderate reduction of the volume of active brain tissue in all three groups.
In the patients with advanced myelopathy evaluated in relation to local changes in brain activation, surgery led to a significant decrease in activation volumes in the ipsilateral primary motor cortex and cerebellar hemisphere.
There was also a significant increase in activation of the contralateral supplementary motor cortex.
DISCUSSION It is evident that the brain responds to spinal cord damage by increased activity, but with a certain delay.
A slightly altered spinal cord signal intensity, such as in incipient myelopathy, apparently does not result in brain activation.
On the other hand, significant changes in signal intensity in advanced myelopathy are related to deterioration of spinal cord function, as shown by MEP and SEP examination results, and an increase in both the volume and intensity of cortical motor activation as a compensation mechanism for myelopathy.
CONCLUSIONS Hyperintense spinal cord signals on T2-weighted images correlated with the pathological spinal cord function detected by electrophysiological test in all patients.
The transverse spinal cord area (around 70 mm2) showed no significant correlation with either sensory and motor brain adaptations or the results of SEP and MEP testing; therefore, as a criterion for indication to surgery it is of no value.
The patients with advanced myelopathy, as detected by spinal cord MRI, had a significantly higher pre-operative cortical motor activation on fMRI than patients with normal findings or those with incipient myelopathy.
In addition, the patterns of cortical motor activation altered significantly at 6 months after spinal cord decompression, which was shown by an increase or decrease in activation of the relevant motor cortex areas.KEY WORDS: cervical spondylotic myelopathy, functional magnetic resonance imaging, surgical decompression, cortical reorganisation.We report the case of a French traveler who developed acute pulmonary schistosomiasis 2 months after visiting Benin.
He presented with a 1-month history of fever, cough, and thoracic pain.
Initial investigations revealed hypereosinophilia and multiple nodular lesions on chest computed tomography scan.
Lung biopsies were performed 2 months later because of migrating chest infiltrates and increasing eosinophilia.
Histological examination showed schistosomal egg-induced pulmonary granulomas with ova exhibiting a prominent terminal spine, resembling Schistosoma haematobium.
However, egg shells were Ziehl-Neelsen positive, raising the possibility of a Schistosoma intercalatum or a Schistosoma guineensis infection.
Moreover, involvement of highly infectious hybrid species cannot be excluded considering the atypical early pulmonary oviposition.
This case is remarkable because of the rarity of pulmonary schistosomiasis, its peculiar clinical presentation and difficulties in making species identification.
It also emphasizes the need to consider schistosomiasis diagnosis in all potentially exposed travelers with compatible symptoms.This n=40 cohort study on superficial and partial thickness burns compares novel keratin-based products with the standard products used at our facility.
The keratin products are found to facilitate healing with minimal scarring, be well tolerated with minimal pain and itch, be easy to use for the health professional and be cost effective for the health care provider.
For these reasons they are being adopted into use at our facility.OBJECTIVE: The study aims were to evaluate the effects of radial shock wave therapy (RSWT) in dogs with hip osteoarthritis (OA) using clinical assessment and kinetic analysis.
METHODS: Thirty dogs diagnosed with bilateral hip OA and 30 healthy dogs were used.
In OA dogs, one limb was randomly selected for treatment with RSWT while the contralateral limb served as an untreated control.
Dogs were evaluated while walking on a pressure walkway.
Peak vertical force (PVF) and vertical impulse (VI) were documented; symmetry index (SI) was also calculated.
Blinded clinical evaluation was performed using a visual analogue scale (VAS).
Owner perception data regarding levels of physical activity were also collected.
The RSWT protocol (2000 pulses, 10 Hz, 2-3.4 bars) consisted of three weekly treatment sessions (days 1, 8 and 16).
Follow-up data were collected 30, 60 and 90 days after the first session.
Data were compared between time points, groups and limbs pairs.
RESULTS: At the end of the experimental period, mean PVF and VI values had increased (25.9 to 27.6%BW and 2.1 to 12.7%BW × s respectively) in treated limbs, with no significant differences in control limbs; SI values suggest improvement.
Mean PVF and VI remained lower in the treated compared to the healthy group following treatment.
The VAS scores suggested improvement in pain and lameness in treated dogs.
Owner perception data suggested improved levels of physical activity following treatment.
Conclusions and clinical significance: Outcomes of this study suggested beneficial effects of RSWT in dogs with hip osteoarthritis.We report on 2 patients who developed widespread cerebral vasospasm and arterial ischemic strokes (AIS) after application of intrathecal (IT) cytarabine.
In a 3-year-old child with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), left leg weakness, hyperreflexia, and clonus were noted 4 days after her first dose of IT cytarabine during the induction phase of her chemotherapy.
Cerebral MRI revealed multiple acute cerebral ischemic infarcts and widespread cerebral vasospasm.
A 5-year-old girl complained of right arm and leg pain and began limping 11 days after IT cytarabine.
Symptoms progressed to right dense hemiplegia, left gaze deviation, headache, and speech arrest.
MRI revealed 2 large cortical areas of diffusion restriction in the right frontal and left parietal lobes.
Cerebral magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) showed irregular narrowing affecting much of the intracranial arterial circulation.
Although the first child fully recovered from her neurologic symptoms, the second patient had persistent hemiplegia on follow-up.
Including this report, there are now 4 pediatric ALL cases of severe cerebral vasospasm and AIS in the context of IT cytarabine administration, strongly suggesting a true association.
Differential diagnosis and management issues are discussed.
Along with the more widespread use of MRI and MRA, the true frequency of this severe adverse effect will become clearer in future.
For any child with neurologic symptoms within hours or days of receiving IT cytarabine, a low threshold for cerebral imaging with MRI and MRA is recommended.Parastomal hernia is one of the major complications of colostomy with high occurrence.
From October 2011 to November 2014, a retrospective study was conducted by analyzing and following up data of 16 patients suffering from parastomal hernia who underwent a hybrid technique repair.
The safety and efficacy of the hybrid technique for parastomal hernia repair was investigated in terms of complications.
All cases were operated successfully and had no major immediate postoperative complications other than mild abdominal pain in 5 cases.
No long-term postoperative complications were reported in the follow-up.
The authors found hybrid technique to be safe and effective for parastomal hernia repair with fewer complications.OBJECTIVE: To evaluate success of pulpal anaesthesia of mandibular 1st molar by using 4% articaine in buccal infiltration versus 2% lidocaine in inferior alveolar nerve block.
STUDY DESIGN: Randomized control trial.
PLACE AND DURATION OF STUDY: Department of Operative Dentistry, Sardar Begum Dental College, Gandhara University, Peshawar, from March to August 2014.
METHODOLOGY: One hundred and fifty-six emergency patients, who had 1st molar diagnosed with irreversible pulpitis, participated in the study.
Subjects were divided into two groups by random allocation.
One group received 4% articaine buccal infiltration and the other group received inferior alveolar nerve block of 2% lidocaine.
Subjects&rsquo;self-reported pain response was recorded on Heft Parker Visual Analogue Scale after local anaesthetic administration during access cavity preparation and pulp extirpation.
RESULTS: Mean age of subjects was 31.46 &plusmn;10.994 years.
The success rate of 4% buccal infiltration was 76.9%; whereas the success rate of 2% lidocaine inferior alveolar nerve block was 62.8%.
There was no statistically significant difference between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: 4% articaine buccal infiltration can be considered a viable alternative to 2% lidocaine inferior alveolar nerve block in securing successful pulpal anaesthesia for endodontic therapy.Crohn's disease (CD) is rarely presented with lower GI bleeding (LGIB) which eludes the clinician.
A 25-year-old lady with severe rectorrhagia was presented with no history of constipation, diarrhea or abdominal pain.
Colonoscopy revealed ulcers in the rectum, sigmoid colon, and terminal ileum.
Crohn's pathologic features were detected in the terminal ileum.
The bleeding was controlled via supportive care and IV corticosteroid.
Recurrent LGIB was managed by prednisolone and azathioprine.
The patient had an uneventful recovery.
The clinicians should consider CD as a possible diagnosis in severe LGIB.
Prednisolone and azathioprine efficiently control acute bleeding episodes and prevent the recurrence.Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease or histiocytic necrotizing lymphadenitis is an idiopathic, self-limiting disorder and predominantly affects young women.
We report a 35-year-old female who presented with soft to firm cervical lymphadenopathy and neck pain.
She had multiple enlarged cervical nodes.
Examination of other systems was normal.
Lymph node biopsy was performed, and the histological features, and immunohistochemistry confirmed the diagnosis.
The Patient was treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and low-dose prednisolone.
A significant decrease in the size of lymph node and relief of neck pain occurred.
During four years of follow-up, the patient developed no malignant disease or systemic and autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus.
Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease is rare, clinicians should be aware of this condition as early diagnosis of the disease will lessen concerns of the patient's family.Osteoid osteoma is painful benign tumor.
The aim of this study was to report our initial experience using magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound to treat osteoid osteomas.
This retrospective single-center study included four patients treated with magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound.
They presented with severe pain with reduced quality of life and a poor response to clinical treatment.
The pre- and post-treatment evaluation comprised computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging and focused on quality of life and the impact of pain on daily activities.
After treatment, three patients had complete pain resolution with no recurrence.
One patient had a recurrence of symptoms after 2 wk and underwent a new successful treatment with increased energy levels.
On average, 13 sonications were administered (8-18 sonications/treatment) with an average energy of 2,003 J (range: 1,063-3,522 J).
Magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound appears to be a feasible, tolerable and effective treatment in selected patients with osteoid osteomas.PURPOSE: To develop evidence-based recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of skeletally immature patients with subscapularis and lesser tuberosity avulsion injuries.
METHODS: We searched the online databases PubMed, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) for relevant publications on subscapularis and lesser tuberosity injuries in skeletally immature patients.
All publication dates and languages were included.
From studies identified, data were extracted to identify patient characteristics, history and physical examination findings, time to diagnosis, results from imaging studies, and treatment outcomes.
These findings were combined and descriptively analyzed.
RESULTS: We identified 32 publications on 60 patients with a mean age of 13.5 ± 1.7 years.
The most common physical examination finding at the time of diagnosis was anterior shoulder pain, followed by subscapularis muscle weakness.
The sensitivity of imaging was 16% for radiographs and 95% for magnetic resonance imaging.
The median time to diagnosis was 2 months (interquartile range, 1 to 7 months).
Of 60 patients, 10 (17%) underwent successful nonoperative treatment.
Fifty patients (83%) underwent surgical repair, without differences in clinical outcomes after open versus arthroscopic repair.
Five cases (8%) were identified where delayed treatment was associated with suboptimal outcomes and ongoing shoulder pain.
CONCLUSIONS: Subscapularis and lesser tuberosity avulsion injuries in skeletally immature patients are most commonly seen in male patients during early adolescence.
A high index of suspicion should be maintained in patients with anterior shoulder pain and subscapularis muscle weakness, especially after a fall on an outstretched arm or an eccentric external rotation injury.
Magnetic resonance imaging should be considered early, even if radiographic findings are negative.
Both open and arthroscopic repairs are effective in restoring function, if fixation respects the soft bone of the lesser tuberosity.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV, systematic review of low-quality studies.BACKGROUND: In case of a ruptured bladder with urine leakage into the peritoneal cavity 'reversed autodialysis' can occur, in which urea and creatinine diffuse back into the bloodstream via the peritoneum.
This causes clinical signs of pseudorenal failure, with raised concentrations of creatinine and urea.
The urea/creatinine ratio does not change.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 34-year-old female patient experienced increasing abdominal pain 3 days after laparoscopic myomectomy.
Acute renal failure was suspected because of increased serum concentrations of creatinine and urea, but no cause could be found.
There was a build-up of fluid in the abdominal cavity, which proved to be urine originating from an iatrogenic rupture of the bladder.
Serum levels normalised following repair of the rupture.
CONCLUSION: If serum creatinine levels rise rapidly following abdominal surgery or blunt abdominal trauma the bladder should be examined for possible perforation, particularly if the abdominal dimension increases.
A ruptured bladder leading to pseudorenal failure is an indication for rapid surgical intervention.A 57-year-old patient presented to the orthopaedic department with hip pain 7 months after hip replacement and two weeks after dry needling by a physiotherapist.
Dry needling is used by physiotherapists to treat pain and stiffness.
In the Netherlands, there are no clear guidelines or contra-indications described for this treatment.
The surgical scar of our patient showed signs of inflammation for which debridement and irrigation were performed.
Tissue samples showed positive bacterial cultures and the patient was treated with antibiotics.
One week after completing this treatment, the infection returned.
Debridement and irrigation were repeated and antibiotic treatment was recommenced.
Three months later, the patient showed no signs of infection with the prosthesis still in situ.
Although there is no strong evidence for a causal relationship between dry needling and the infection, dry needling should be used carefully in patients with a joint replacement, due to the increased risk of infection.Context Opioids have been used as the reference treatment on chronic pain.
However, they are related to serious adverse effects which affect the patient compliance to treatment, as well as, his quality of life.
Particulate formulations have been investigated as an alternative to improve opioid efficacy and safety.
Objective Summarise the available studies concerning micro and nanoencapsulated opioid formulations discussing their biopharmaceutical characteristics, such as composition, size, in vitro release, pharmacokinetic and antinociceptive profile.
Methods Papers available in 1995-2015 at Medline, Science Direct and Web of Science databases were collected and assessed.
Searches were performed using varied combinations of the keywords of this work.
Results Opioid-loaded particles showed prolonged drug release with maintenance of serum therapeutic concentrations and extended analgesia when compared with the free drugs.
The side effects incidences were reduced or maintained the same.
Conclusion Particulate formulations can significantly increase both potency and safety profiles of opioids.BACKGROUND: Health care workers (HCW) in low and middle income countries are at high risk of nosocomial tuberculosis infection.
Periodic screening of health workers for both TB disease and infection can play a critical role in TB infection control.
Occupational health programs that implement serial tuberculin skin testing (TST) are advised to use a two-step baseline TST.
This helps to ensure that boosting of waned immune response is not mistaken as new TB infection (i.e.
conversion).
However, there are no data on safety of the two-step TST in the Indian context where HCWs are repeatedly exposed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Nursing students were recruited from 2007 to 2009 at the Christian Medical College and Hospital, Vellore, India.
Consenting nursing students were screened with a baseline two-step TST at the time of recruitment.
From 2007 to 2008 adverse events were recorded when reported during the TST reading (Cohort A).
Nurses recruited in the final study year (2009) answered an investigator administered questionnaire assessing all likely side-effects Cohort B).
This information was extracted from the case report forms and analysed.
RESULTS: Between 2007 and 09, 800 trainees consented to participate in the annual TB screening study and 779 did not have a past history of TB or recall a positive TST and were selected to administer TST.
Of these, 755 returned for reading the result and had complete data and were included for the final analysis - 623 subjects in (cohort A) and 132 in (cohort B).
These were included for the final analysis.
In cohort A only 1.3% reported adverse events.
In cohort B, as per the investigator administered questionnaire; 25% reported minor side effects.
Itching and local pain were the most common side effects encountered.
There were no major adverse events reported.
In particular, the adverse events were similar in the second step of the test and not more severe.
CONCLUSION: Screening of HCWs with two-step TST for LTBI is simple and safe, and hence suitable for wide scale implementation in high-burden settings such as India.An unusual case of a patient presenting with a large infected haematoma following a traumatic grade II acromioclavicular joint dislocation is reported.
Diagnosis of this rare complication, of an otherwise common self-limiting injury, was delayed until 19 days postinjury despite several presentations during this time with worsening swelling and pain.
The patient was found to have significant tissue destruction by the time washout was performed and required multiple procedures to treat the infection.
This case highlights the need for a high index of suspicion for complications, even following common self-limiting injuries, when patients represent with symptoms that do not fit the usual natural history of the condition, particularly if they have risk factors for bleeding and infection.The article summarizes current information on blood pressure changes in children during clinic visit.
White coat as a general dressing of physicians and health care personnel has been widely accepted at the end of the 19th century.
Two problems can be associated with the use of white coat: white coat phenomenon and white coat hypertension.
Children often attribute pain and other unpleasant experience to the white coat and refuse afterwards cooperation with examinations.
Definition of white coat hypertension in the literature is not uniform.
It has been defined as elevated blood pressure in the hospital or clinic with normal blood pressure at home measured during the day by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring system.
White coat effect is defined as temporary increase in blood pressure before and during visit in the clinic, regardless what the average daily ambulatory blood pressure values are.
Clinical importance of white coat hypertension is mainly because of higher risk for cardiovascular accidents that are dependent on end organ damage (heart, vessels, kidney).
Current data do not allow any clear recommendations for the treatment.
Pharmacological therapy is usually started in the presence of hypertrophic left ventricle, changes in intimal/medial wall thickness of carotic arteries, microalbuminuria and other cardiovascular risk factors.
Nonpharmacological therapy is less controversial and certainly more appropriate.
Patients have to change their life style, need to eliminate as much cardiovascular risk factors as possible and sustain a regular blood pressure monitoring.
